This article, which is based on the author's Presidential address to the American Finance Association in 1993, argues that squeezing out excess capital and capacity is one of the most formidable ongoing challenges facing not only the U.S. economy, but the economies of all industrialized nations. In making this argument, the article draws striking parallels between the 19th‐century industrial revolution and worldwide economic developments in the last three decades. In both periods, technological advances led to not only sharp increases in productivity and dramatic reductions in prices, but also massive obsolescence and overcapacity. And much as the great M&A wave of the 1890s reduced capacity by consolidating some 1,800 companies into roughly 150, the leveraged takeovers, LBOs, and other leveraged recapitalizations of the 1980s provided “healthy adjustments” to overcapacity that was building in many sectors of the U.S. economy. To help public companies make the necessary adjustments to overcapacity, the author urges them to consider adopting some of the features of private equity, including significant equity stakes for managers, high leverage or payouts, and the recruiting of active investors as “partners in the business.”
We find firms’ work-related injury rates are negatively associated with the level of analyst coverage. This result is also robust at the establishment level at which we find local analysts have a more profound impact than distant analysts. Cross-sectionally, our results are exacerbated in firms with weak internal governance mechanisms and in industries with low union representation. Finally, management is more likely to discuss safety issues during earnings conference calls in the presence of more analysts. Overall, our results suggest analysts play an effective external monitoring role and have a subtle yet important impact on employee welfare. This paper was accepted by Brian Bushee, accounting.
ABSTRACT Using data from the Athens Stock Exchange, we investigate early warning signs of delisting risk. We find that the probability of delisting and time to delist are positively associated with relative offer size and earnings’ manipulation, and negatively associated with hot-issuance periods and the joint effects of audit quality, amount of information in the I.P.O. prospectus, and the percentage of non-voluntary information. Our results are more strongly in line with asymmetric information explanations and more prevalent for voluntary delisted firms. Documenting I.P.O. survival factors for a new and different class of stocks extends the range of explanations for delisting risk.
Large banks and small banks can impact agency costs differently. The current study considers a panel data of 30 Indian banks before the merger to reveal the relationship between agency cost and board composition using panel regression models. The agency cost is reflected in three measures: Asset turnover ratio, free cash flow and leverage ratio. Board composition is sub-divided into three groups: board structure, board independence and board diversity. The finding of the study for large banks shows that former CEO, number of employee representatives on board, independent chairperson, CEO duality, bank age and size impacts agency cost. On the other hand, for small banks, results prove that bank age, employee representative on board and CEO duality significantly affects agency cost. Therefore, in the current Indian context of banking merger and governmental directives to increase lending to micro, small and medium enterprises, the focus should be shifted more on increasing managerial productivity and increasing leverage. Hence, the emphasis should not be on increasing governmental representatives on the banking board but to enhance bank governance quality and its monitoring. To this end, the current article can potentially provide valuable insights for sustainable and real economic outcomes.
The purpose of this paper is to examine the contribution of the board's gender diversity compared to its other characteristics in limitation earnings manipulation in the banks. The empirical study carried out on Tunisian banks over a period extending from 2001 to 2019, using the Panel-Corrected Standard Errors, allowed us to show that board gender diversity, turns out in this study of a considerable contribution to the board of directors composition since it has moderated accounting manipulation to avoid losses. As for the board independence, it has reduced earnings manipulation measured by the abnormal provisions. However, it turns out that board size and board duality does not have a significant effect on earnings manipulation.
Corporate fraud scandals in recent years resulted in significant regulatory changes as well as growing interest in fraud-related accounting and audit research. However, the scientific landscape of fraud literature has become increasingly fragmented and little is known about the development and structure of this research field. Using bibliometric analysis, our study aims to provide a better understanding of the historical development and the structure of fraud research in the accounting and audit discipline. Specifically, we use different bibliometric methods to explore 260 fraud articles published in leading accounting and auditing journals between 1926 and 2019. Our study provides a holistic perspective on the intellectual and conceptual structure of fraud research. It further illustrates the evolution and trends of fraud research in the accounting and audit discipline by revealing key authors and publications, important collaboration networks, shifts in research methods, and citation and keyword linkages across the research field. Moreover, we identify and visualize major research clusters as well as fading and emerging research topics. We find that fraud research remained stagnant at a relatively low level in early decades but significantly gained in importance since major regulatory reforms. Our results highlight shifts of fraud research towards archival research methods, multi-authorships, and more specific research themes but – at the same time – that the definition of a typical fraudster did not change significantly over time. We show that the fragmented literature can be categorized into five main clusters, characterizing different research streams. Furthermore, we identify current research gaps and suggest promising future research avenues.
Abstract We investigate the predictive power of corporate social culture, as measured by corporate social responsibility (CSR) intensity, on shareholder wealth when mergers and acquisitions (M&As) are carried out by managers with different traits. We find acquiring firms with talented managers are more inclined to engage in CSR activities to shape corporate social culture, thereby realizing larger short- and long-term gains than their counterparts. We also document that acquiring firms with higher levels of CSR commitment led by talented managers tend to acquire targets of similar corporate social culture and experience significantly positive post-merger returns, suggesting that corporate cultural similarity constitutes an important source of M&A synergies. These findings suggest that corporate culture built through stakeholder relations acts as a differentiation strategy that pays off when skilled managers engage in M&As, which typically prompt information asymmetries between managers and outsiders.
This paper examines the pre-committed payout hypothesis that firms which increase R&D investment also increase payouts in order to mitigate the information asymmetry and agency problems. We use the R&D tax reform which came into effect in 2007 in Japan as a natural experiment. We find that increases in R&D investments lead to increased payouts, as predicted by the pre-committed payout hypothesis. Furthermore, we find that the positive relationship between R&D investment and payouts is affected by the degree of corporate governance and agency problems measured by managerial ownership, the status of net debt and the adoption of anti-takeover provisions.
Objective – This research focuses on manufacturing companies with high growth rates, as measured by the Tobins'Q proxy. The high growth of a company is closely related to higher agency costs, compared to companies with low growth rates. We investigate the influence of the board of commissioners, directors, audit committees, bid-ask spreads on the high agency costs of manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. The indicator of agency costs in this study are the EXPR and AUR ratios. Design/methodology – The population of this study are manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. Purposive random sampling resulted 111 samples of companies with high growth rates. This study uses multiple linear regression analysis. The first analysis with EXPR independent variable and the second analysis with AUR independent variable, both variables could be used as agency cost indicators. Results – The result reveals that the board of commissioners and directors have a positive effect on the agency costs, which are measured by the EXPR and AUR ratios while the audit committee has a negative significant effect on the high agency costs as measured by the EXPR ratio. Moreover, bid-ask spread as a control variable has a significant positive effect on AUR. The presence of monitoring quality, pressure, reputation of the board of commissioners and audit committee will reduce the types of management policy which may increase agency conflict.
Firms with higher R&D intensity subsequently experience higher stock returns in international stock markets, highlighting the role of intangible investments in international asset pricing. The R&D effect is stronger in countries where growth option risk is more likely priced, but is unrelated to country characteristics representing market sentiments and limits-of-arbitrage. Moreover, we find that R&D intensity is associated with higher future operating performance, return volatility, and default likelihood. Our evidence suggests that the cross-sectional relation between R&D intensity and stock return is more likely attributable to risk premium than to mispricing.
Using a sample of US firms more likely to be affected by agency problems, the purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between corporate value and financial policies and to study whether credit market freedom (CMF) affects this relationship.,The authors identify a sub-sample of non-financial US firms potentially affected by agency problems using a joint criterion of over-investment and high cash-holdings. A generalized method of moment econometric framework is then used to estimate the impact of cash-holdings and leverage policies on firm value for this sub-sample. This exercise is also performed by taking into account the level of CMF of the state where the firm operates.,The results show that the relationship between cash-holdings – or leverage – and firm value is “U-shaped.” In addition, when the authors focus on the role played by the level of CMF, the authors find a number of interesting facts: CMF facilitates the firms’ access to external finance, thereby relaxing the need of internal funds for investing; the relationship between cash-holdings and firm value is “U-shaped” only in states enjoying high levels of CMF; the probability of observing firms more likely to be affected by agency problems is higher in states with high levels of CMF.,The empirical findings provide important insights to policymakers, shareholders and practitioners. To policymakers, the results suggest that providing institutional environments with greater CMF can enhance the firm access to external finance, the level of corporate investment and the economic growth. To shareholders, the findings highlight that the conflicts of interest between managers and shareholders may be more severe in states with higher CMF; therefore, adequate financing policies and corporate governance mechanisms must be used to mitigate these conflicts and maximize the firm value. Finally, to practitioners, the evidence suggests that, in valuing a firm, they must take into consideration whether the economic environment provides managers with more freedom to stockpile cash and invest sub-optimally.,The paper contributes to the corporate finance and governance literature in two respects. First, it provides new evidence on the shape of the relationship between cash holdings and firm value for firms affected by empire-building managers. Second, at the best of the knowledge, it is the first corporate finance study, which analyzes the role played by the CMF at the state level on the capital structure and the level of investment of the firms.
Knowledge acts as a crucial element in economic activities. For knowledge-intensive business, R&D activities maintain market competitiveness and create new firm value. R&D expenditure indeed brings forth potential growth opportunities for firm value although the growth may take a long time to achieve. Apart from that, it usually accompanies problems of agency costs and asymmetric information in daily firm operations, which, in turn, may offset the certainty of a firm’s increasing value. This study examines the decision-making on optimal R&D expenditure for listed firms in Taiwan. From January 1986 to December 2013, the data of all the listed firms excluding financial, insurance, and securities firms have been analyzed. In addition, to further explore the differences in decision-making among different macroeconomic conditions, industrial attributes and firms’ characteristics, we divide all samples into subsamples to reexamine. The empirical findings indicate that firms may weigh the cost and benefit of R&D expenditure in its decision, but the driving factor lies in firm’s return on assets (ROA), potential growth opportunity, and capital structure.
Literature has presented extensive discussion about the driving forces of takeover activities including investor sentiment, liquidity, and fundamental shocks. We examine how manager sentiment constructed on the basis of textual analysis of 10-Ks and 10-Qs, affect takeover characteristics and long-term performance. We find that manager sentiment has a strong positive predictive power for takeover waves. Firms with high manager sentiment tend to acquire large and private targets, complete deals with large size, complex payment structure, and high bidding premium. Manager sentiment decreases the quality of takeover deals and long-term performance.
Research Question/Issue. This study investigates the effect of cross‐shareholding on financial reporting and the information environment in the Japanese market and hypothesizes that higher cross‐shareholding is related to lower contract‐efficient earnings recognition and higher information asymmetry because cross‐shareholding entrenches managers. Furthermore, we investigate whether managers try to maximize their self‐interest or to enjoy a quiet life when they are isolated from market pressure and entrenched owing to cross‐shareholding. Research Findings/Insights. Using a unique dataset on cross‐shareholding among Japanese listed firms, we find that higher cross‐shareholding is associated with (1) less timely loss recognition and (2) higher probability of information‐based trading. Further investigation clarifies that higher cross‐shareholdings are related to (3) lower absolute forecast error and (4) lower R&D expenditures. The first two findings indicate that cross‐shareholding entrenches managers, and the last two findings show that entrenched managers enjoy a quiet life. Theoretical/Academic Implications. This study contributes to the corporate governance literature by providing new evidence that cross‐shareholding influences financial reporting and the information environment in the market by inducing managers to become entrenched and to enjoy a quiet life. Practitioner/Policy Implications. This study provides implications for policymakers in markets in which cross‐shareholding is a common ownership format. To enhance contract‐efficient financial reporting and/or reduce information asymmetry in the market, it may be necessary to reduce cross‐shareholding.
O inicio do seculo XXI apresenta um cenario de profundas transformacoes para a sociedade humana. As inovacoes tecnologicas permitirao avancos significativos em varias areas e aspectos da sociedade humana, como saude e longevidade, eficiencia energetica e mobilidade urbana. Havera prosperidade economica dentro da logica do processo de destruicao criativa, com produtos e negocios sendo substituidos por outros. A sexta onda de inovacao tecnologica deve impactar severamente a logica da interacao entre tecnologia, sociedade e trabalho. A nova onda de inovacao, baseada em tecnologias digitais e de inteligencia combinadas com tecnologias de informacao e comunicacao nascidas na segunda metade do seculo XX, apresenta caracteristicas especificas que a diferenciam estruturalmente das ondas anteriores,
Investors tend to litigate large stock price declines, i.e., file “stock-drop lawsuits”. Enterprising plaintiffs’ attorneys seek to take advantage of the stock market declines that have accompanied the COVID-19 outbreak in early 2020 by filing class action lawsuits. However, it is less clear whether the ex-ante threat of security class actions can deter stock price crashes. To address this question, we exploit the 1999 ruling of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals that discourages security class actions as a quasi-exogenous shock, and find that reducing the threat of security class actions leads to a significant increase in stock price crash risk. This effect is more pronounced for firms faced with higher litigation risk, with worse earnings quality and weaker monitoring from auditors, and is partially driven by decreased timeliness of bad-news disclosure. Our overall findings highlight the importance of security class actions in constraining bad-news hoarding and maintaining market stability.
Fraud is an act of using dishonest methods in order to obtain something from someone else (ACFE, 2017). The concept of actions of fraud has always been associated with being corrupt or making fraudulent actions which cause indirect harm to their organisation. These actions of fraud behaviour directly cause financial and economic losses and have a long term impact towards their organisation (Adawiah, 1998; Ho, Li, Tam, & Zhang, 2014). The organisations that are unable to handle the impact of fraud will either face foreclosure such as Enron, Arthur Anderson and WorldCom (Lunenburg, 2012; Rashid, Sambasivan, & Rahman, 2004) are some of the international examples of organisations affected by actions of fraud. The paper also focuses on the Malaysian local perspective on how these fraud occurrences impact each of the organisations. The common ground is that each of these fraud cases had provided economic losses to the government financially or non-financially in terms of loss of reputations (Gee, Button, & Brooks, 2011). The paper shows that although there are common control mechanism in the organisations such as audit reports and internal control mechanisms these actions of fraud are still a common occurrence. Such control mechanisms are thought to provide assurances towards the organisations in some cases of these fraud actions were the leaders themselves are the ones involved and instructing the organisations to commit those actions (Free & Macintosh, 2006). The paper expresses the small scale fraud that occurs in various government bodies to high levels of fraud cases that have occurred throughout the years. These are the common overlay of the definitions of fraud as provided by various bodies from accounting, financial and professional organisations. Table 1 presents an overall outlay of what defines fraud from different approach and outlooks.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of corporate governance on intellectual capital (IC) in companies listed on the Tehran stock exchange.,In this paper, the board features (size, independence and CEO duality) and the characteristics of the audit committee (financial expertise, independence and size) are considered to measure the factors of corporate governance. The IC is also divided into communicative, human, structural and value-added IC. Research data are gathered using a sample of 132 companies during 2013-2016. Research hypotheses are analyzed using panel data and logistic regression models.,The findings indicate that while the board’s independence, financial expertise and the size of the audit committee are negatively related to the communicative capital, the relationship between audit committee independence and communicative capital is positive and significant. Further, the authors observe that there is a positive relationship between board independence and human capital, a negative and significant link between audit committee size and human capital. By the way, the results reveal that audit committee independence and audit committee size have, respectively positive and negative impact on structural capital.,The results of the current study may give more insight into the relationship between corporate governance and managerial capital in developing nations.
The idea that a corporation’s employees should be allowed to elect some of the corporation’s board members, a system known as codetermination, has moved to the forefront of U.S. corporate law policy. Elizabeth Warren’s Accountable Capitalism Act calls for employees of large firms to elect 40% of all board members. Bernie Sanders’s Corporate Accountability and Democracy Plan goes even further and states that workers should elect 45% of board members. 
 
Both Warren’s and Sanders’s plans are broadly similar to the German law on codetermination, which for many decades has allowed employees of large German corporations to elect up to half of all board members. It is therefore unsurprising that Senator Sanders points to Germany’s successful economic development as evidence that economic progress and mandatory codetermination can go hand in hand. 
 
However, this Article argues that codetermination promises to be a poor fit for U.S. corporations. While Germany arguably reaps significant benefits from codetermination, legal, social, and institutional differences between Germany and the United States make it highly unlikely that the United States would be able to replicate those benefits. Furthermore, the costs of codetermination would probably be much higher in the United States than they are in Germany.
Accepted views of a classic academic work can quite readily distort the original text. Michael Jensen and William Meckling’s widely cited 1976 article “Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership Structure” exemplifies the pattern. The article has been cited as a key inspiration for various significant governance changes affecting publicly traded firms, including moving the maximization of shareholder value to the top of the managerial priority list. Jensen and Meckling in fact had little to say about altering the corporate landscape, in substantial measure because they were favorably disposed toward the public company. This chapter canvasses the wide gap between what Jensen and Meckling supposedly said about the public company and what they actually said and explains how this discrepancy occurred.
Acknowledgement: This paper is a slightly revised version of Chapters 3 and 7 of a Ph.D. thesis entitled: “AAOIFI governance disclosure in Islamic banks: Its determinants and impact on performance” by the first author of the paper (Tawida Elgattani) submitted to the Accounting and Financial Management Division, Portsmouth Business School, the University of Portsmouth (December 2018). Tawida would like to thank the supervisory team (Professor Khaled Hussainey and Dr. Antonios Kallias and the examiners (Professor Mehmet Asutay and Dr. Ahmed Aboud) for their valuable comments on earlier versions of her thesis. The authors of the current paper confirm that there is no any copyright issue associated with their work.
Nowadays a great deal of attention is paid to corporate governance (CG). Frequent takeovers of ownership rights by management bodies led to a need for business owners to establish clear rules for business management and compliance monitoring. The aim of this paper is to examine the relationship between selected characteristics of the governance process and the ability of governing bodies to perform their core tasks, as well as to model and predict the impact of the selected characteristics of the governance process on the company’s financial performance, measured by the year-on-year change in return on equity. The respondent sample consists of members of randomly selected top management entities with their headquarters in Slovakia. A total of 132 subjects participated and answered questions in the survey, 54% of which were joint stock companies, 36% were limited liability companies and 10% were respondents from cooperatives. Data were personally collected by a questionnaire survey conducted during 2019. To verify the assumptions and success of the formulated model, correlation analysis, binary logistic regression and other relevant tests were used. The results show that each of the examined board process attributes significantly affects at least one board performance attribute. All significant correlations have a positive value. Independent variables in the ROE regression model increased the estimation rate of ROE change from 54.5% to 93.9%. The model is applicable in the CG practice and allows the prediction of changes in ROE with respect to ongoing governance processes. Janka Grofcikova (Slovak Republic), Hussam Musa (Slovak Republic)
Unlike purely domestic firms, globalized firms have unique opportunities to engage in international tax planning activities. This study examines whether banks consider international tax planning, and in particular potential earnings repatriation taxes, when setting loan contracts for multinational firms. We find that U.S. multinationals with high levels of potential earnings repatriation taxes face higher loan spreads, and we find that this effect is more pronounced for firms that have low profitability or that are financially constrained. We also document that banks are more likely to require collateral and include more financial covenants in the contracts of these borrowers. Our study contributes to the literature by investigating the effect of international tax issues on bank lending.
This study examines the impact of corporate governance on capital structure decisions based on a large panel of Chinese listed firms. Using the system Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) estimator to control for unobserved heterogeneity, endogeneity and persistency in capital structure decisions, we document that the ownership structure plays a significant role in determining leverage ratios. More specially, we find that managerial ownership has a positive and significant impact on firms’ leverage, consistent with the incentive alignment hypothesis. We also find that managerial ownership only affects the leverage decisions of private firms in the post-2005 split share reform period. State ownership negatively influence leverage decisions implying that SOEs may face fewer restrictions in equity issuance and may receive favourable treatments when applying for seasoned equity ﬁnancing, thus use less debt. Furthermore, our results show that while foreign ownership negatively influences leverage decisions, legal person shareholding positively influences firms’ leverage decisions only for state controlled firms. We also find that the board structure variables (board size and the proportion of independent directors) do not influence firms’ capital structure decisions. Our findings suggest that recent ownership reforms have been successful in terms of providing incentive to managers through managerial shareholdings to take risky financial choices.
Motivated by the agency theory and the need to examine the effect of separation of ownership and management, this study examines the determinants of profitability in different firm ownership structures and how different ownership structures impact the profitability of listed firms between 2003 and 2013, using pooled annual data of 23 Ghanaian listed firms. Employing a number of static models (OLS, Random Effects and 3 Stage Least Squares), we find evidence that while profit determinants vary for listed firms given their ownership structures, ownership structures also affected profitability differently. Specifically, for listed firms, profitability was determined by capital intensity, liquidity, financial risk, age and GDP; for non-family owned listed firms, profitability was determined by capital intensity, liquidity, market share and age; for foreign-owned firms, profitability was determined by capital intensity, liquidity, age and GDP; and for non-foreign ownership, profitability was determined by capital intensity, liquidity, financial risk, growth, age and GDP. When we examine the impact of ownership structure on profitability and find that family-owned listed firms make 30% less profits compared to nonfamily owned ones, whilst foreign-owned firms make 13% more profits than non-foreign owned ones. These findings confirm the agency theory which posits that separation of ownership and management, though may lead to agency problems, can positively affect profits. The study recommends that family-owned listed firms should consider diluting ownership in order to grow more profits.
An unintended consequence of recent governance reforms in the U.S. is firms’ greater reliance on older director candidates, resulting in noticeable board aging. We investigate this phenomenon and its implications for corporate governance. We document that older independent directors exhibit poor board meeting attendance, are less likely to serve on or chair key board committees, and receive less shareholder support in annual elections. We find that their presence is associated with weaker board oversight in acquisition decisions, CEO turnover, executive compensation, and financial reporting. However, they provide valuable advisory services when they have specialized experience and when managers have a greater need for board advice.

Purpose
The paper aims to provide a comprehensive investigation of the relationship between corporate governance (CG) structure and firm performance in Chinese listed firms from 2001 to 2015. The authors’ motivation derives from the fact that the CG system in China is different from those in the US, the UK, Germany, Japan and other countries.


Design/methodology/approach
A large unbalanced sample, covering more than 22,700 observations in Chinese listed firms, was used to explore, by means of a system-generalized method-of-moments (GMM) estimator, the relationship between CG structure and firm performance to remove potential sources of endogeneity.


Findings
Results show that Chinese CG structure is endogenously determined by the CG mechanisms investigated: there is no relationship between board size (including independent directors) and firm performance; CEO duality has a significantly negative effect on firm performance; concentration of ownership has a significantly positive influence on firm performance; managerial ownership is negatively correlated with firm performance; state ownership has a significantly positive effect on firm performance; and a supervisory board is positively correlated with firm performance.


Practical implications
The findings provide policymakers and firm managers with useful empirical guidance concerning CG in China.


Originality/value
Few integrative studies have examined the impact of CG structure on firm performance in China. This study adds new empirical evidence that the relation between CG structure and performance in China is endogenous and dynamic when controlling for unobserved heterogeneity, simultaneity, and dynamic endogeneity.

Corporate governance (CG) and corporate social responsibility (CSR) are important subjects for corporate sustainability that affect firm value (FV). At the same time research results in several countries provide diverse empirical evidence. This study analyzes the impact of corporate governance (CG) and corporate social responsibility (CSR) on firm value (FV) through the cost of capital (CoC) in public companies of Indonesia. The research sample includes 27 companies that publish sustainability reports and corporate governance reports, with an observation period from 2010 till 2016. This study presents the analysis of three firm value proxies (Tobin’s q (TQ), Price Earnings Ratio (PER), and Price to Book Value (PBV)). Results of hypotheses testing using Partial Least Squares (PLS) show that CG and CSR have both direct and indirect effects on FV. These findings are consistent for all three firm value assessments. According to direct testing, CG has a negative effect on FV, while CSR has a positive effect. The CoC acts as a mediating variable in this relationship. The CG and CSR have a negative effect on CoC, while CoC has a negative effect on FV. The findings show that CG and CSR can improve the company performance and corporate image internally and externally, thereby increasing the investors` confidence, and companies have the opportunity to obtain inexpensive funding sources that can reduce CoC. A decrease in CoC can increase profitability and have an impact on FV increasing.
This study investigates the effect of co-CEO structure on asymmetric cost behavior. A firm’s cost behavior reflects managers’ decision making about resources, which can be influenced by various factors. One of them relates to a manager’s decision to inefficiently reallocate their company’s resources when sales decline in pursuit of their incentives for empire-building and disincentives for downsizing. These inefficient resource allocations may result in asymmetric cost behavior, and ultimately be harmful to a firm’s sustainability. We consider the co-CEO structure as an alternative corporate governance mechanism that prevents managers from making inappropriate decisions. By doing so, we investigate whether the degree of cost stickiness differs between co-CEO and single-CEO structures, and whether the former complements external governance mechanisms, particularly foreign ownership, in mitigating cost stickiness. We analyze data from Korean listed companies for 2000–2013, and find that the cost stickiness is lower in the co-CEO structure than in the single-CEO structure. Thus, the co-CEO structure works as an alternative corporate governance mechanism to control the agency problem by inducing mutual monitoring among co-CEOs. Furthermore, the reduction in cost stickiness is greater for firms with higher foreign ownership, indicating that the co-CEO structure complements external governance mechanisms.
Capital expenditures of U.S. public firms, relative to total assets, decrease by more than half from 1980 to 2016. The decline is pervasive across industries and firms of different characteristics, and cannot be explained by the usual determinants of investment and many other seemingly plausible reasons. The decline is consistent with the transformation in production technology – firms rely more on intangible capital and less on fixed assets in production. Industry-level analyses yield supporting evidence. We observe similar declining trend in capital expenditure in other developed countries but not in emerging markets.
This paper studies the capital allocation decisions of firms that are comparable except for ownership under a unique setting using investment level data. We find allocative inefficiency across ownership to be exacerbated under policy distortions through subsidized credits targeted at state-owned firms. Curiously, we also find state-owned firms to concentrate more capital in certain markets even after returns on investment are dampened by negative policy shocks, suggesting that moral hazard could be a real concern. In addition to cross-firm allocative inefficiency, our analysis provides direct evidence of inefficient capital allocation across markets by state-owned firms that exists within firm and asset class.
A standard DCF corporate valuation usually includes a terminal value based on a long-term growth rate to reflect value from beyond the typical forecasting horizon of three to seven years. Despite often having a dominant effect on overall firm value, both the academic literature and practitioner conventions provide very little guidance on how this long-term growth rate should be determined. This paper addresses this gap: we undertake an exploratory analysis of how firms’ long-term growth is related to various firm and industry characteristics. We apply an extensive selection of potential predictors based on firm, industry, and market characteristics, in order to explain the variation in firms’ long-term growth rates. As such, we provide a predicted long-term growth rate for all firms, which can then be used as an input into a DCF valuation. We find that market prices do not seem to capture the full information that we find in long-term growth predictions. Thus, a trading strategy that goes long the decile with the highest long-term growth expectations and short the bottom decile yields positive and statistically significant abnormal returns in the range from ten to thirteen percent per year.
The sizes of the board and its impact on the performance have received much attention in corporate governance. Among the several factors that account for firm’s performance, board related issues are one of the most important ones. Human beings work preeminent in groups of a certain size. A board is nothing beyond a group of human beings trying to effort together to generate the best results for the organization.<br><br>The present research work aims to examine whether board size has any influence on firm’s financial performance. The study has been conducted for the year 2018-19 for BSE 100 companies. The study considers Return on Assets (ROA), Profit before Interest and Tax(PBIT), Return on Equity (ROE), Earning per share (EPS), Dividend per share (DPS) and Tobin’s Q as measures of financial performance, whereas board size has been taken as an independent variable. The results show that ROA, ROE and Tobin’s Q is more for companies with board size between eight and ten. Also, medium size boards are found to perform better than either very small or very big boards. As regard the impact of board size on firm performance, results suggest that for ROE, ROA, PBIT, EPS, DPS and Tobin’s Q are statistically not significant. The Board size has no impact on the performance of the firm. It would look that the ideal board size as far as human decision making is somewhere between eight and ten. But it’s not that simple.
Baik, Farber, and Lee (2011) find that high-ability managers in the U.S. are more likely to issue accurate management earnings forecasts. Focusing on Japan, where management earnings forecasts are effectively mandated, we extend the literature by exploring (1) whether the relationship between managerial ability and forecast accuracy is unique to the U.S. disclosure system, where management forecasts are voluntary, and (2) how high-ability managers increase their forecast accuracy. We find that managerial ability is negatively associated with forecast errors based on initial forecasts, suggesting that high-ability managers are more likely to issue accurate forecasts at the beginning of the fiscal year. We then show that high-ability managers are less likely to revise their initial earnings forecasts and less likely to use earnings management to improve the accuracy of their earnings forecasts. Our findings show that, while high-ability managers are more likely to issue accurate initial management forecasts, low-ability managers are more likely to revise their forecasts and conduct earnings management to reduce their forecast errors.

Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to investigate the level of voluntary compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance (CG) best practices, and the extent to which board characteristics and shareholding structures can explain discernible differences in the level of voluntary CG disclosure in a number of emerging Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) economies.


Design/methodology/approach
The paper uses a number of multivariate regression methods, namely, ordinary least squares, weighted, non-linear, lagged-effects, two-stage least squares and fixed-effects regression techniques to analyse data collected for a sample of listed corporations in emerging MENA economies from 2009 to 2014.


Findings
First, in general, MENA listed firms have a relatively lower level of voluntary compliance with, and disclosure of, CG practices compared to listed firms in developed countries. Second, the evidence suggests that corporate board characteristics, including board diversity, have a positive association with the level of voluntary CG disclosure. In contrast, the findings indicate that unitary board leadership structure, director shareholdings and government shareholdings negatively impact on the level of voluntary CG disclosure. The study does not, however, find any evidence to suggest that family shareholdings have any significant relationship with the level of voluntary CG disclosure. The findings are generally robust to alternative measures and potential endogeneity problems.


Originality/value
This is one of the first empirical efforts at investigating the association between CG mechanisms and voluntary disclosure in emerging MENA economies that observably relies on a multi-theoretical framework within a longitudinal cross-country research setting.

Abstract Using a sample of 104 companies that conducted initial public offering (IPO) on the Warsaw Stock Exchange between 2006 and 2016, we investigated the relationship between the accuracy and bias of the earnings forecast disclosed in the IPO prospectus and the firm corporate governance attributes. Applying multiple Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regressions models, we focused on the role of the board size, the percentage of women on the board, the board age diversity measure, and the proportion of shares owned by the members of the board. Generally, our findings show that some characteristics of management and supervisory board improve the usefulness of earnings forecasts’ credibility. Especially, a more diversified board in terms of age and higher management ownership results in more accurate forecasts. This is the first study giving an insight into the role of supervisory and management board characteristics on precision of earnings forecasts revealed in the prospectus by Polish IPO companies.
In this research, through taking Tobin?s q and ROE as the performance proxy variables and using panel data model for the empirical research, we mainly studied the relationship between the corporate governance and the corporate performance of the listed companies in Taiwan stock market from year 2010 to 2012 with the shareholders exercising the proposal rights. The results revealed that the shareholding proportion of the institutional investors and the salary of the board members are in the significant negative correlation with the corporate performance of the listed companies at the stock market. The corporate governance index and the corporate performance are in significant negative correlation for the listed companies at the over-the-counter market. No matter if the listed company is at the stock market or at the over-the-counter market, the board size and the corporate performance are in significant negative correlation.
PurposeUsing a data set of listed firms domiciled in Taiwan, this paper aims to empirically assess the effects of ownership structure and board of directors on firm value.Design/methodology/approachUsing a sample of Taiwanese listed firms from 1997 to 2015, this study uses a panel estimation to exploit both the cross-section and time–series nature of the data. Furthermore, two stage least squares (2SLS) regression model is used as robustness test to mitigate the endogeneity issue.FindingsThe main results show that the higher the proportion of independent directors, the smaller the board size, together with a two-tier board system and no chief executive officer duality, the stronger the firm’s performance. With respect to ownership structure, block-holders’ ownership, institutional ownership, foreign ownership and family ownership are all positively related to firm value.Research limitations/implicationsAlthough the Taiwanese corporate governance reform concerning the independent director system which is mandatory only for newly-listed companies is successful, the regulatory authority should require all listed companies to appoint independent directors to further enhance the Taiwanese corporate governance.Originality/valueFirst, unlike most of the previous literature on Western developed countries, this study examines the effects of corporate governance mechanisms on firm performance in a newly industrialised country, Taiwan. Second, while a number of studies used a single indicator of firm performance, this study examines both accounting-based and market-based firm performance. Third, this study addresses the endogeneity issue between corporate governance factors and firm performance by using 2SLS estimation, and details the econometric tests for justifying the appropriateness of using 2SLS estimation.
We document significant heterogeneity in the relation between chief executive officer (CEO) equity incentives and firm value using quantile regression. We show that CEO delta is more effective in the presence of ample investment opportunities, while CEO vega is more beneficial for firms lacking investment opportunities. Further, Tobin's Q increases in CEO delta for more risk&#8208;tolerant firms but increases in CEO vega for more risk&#8208;averse firms. We also observe that higher monitoring intensity after the Sarbanes&#8208;Oxley Act reduces CEO delta's role in compensation. Risk aversion alters the optimal incentive&#8208;value relation, and the nature of this relation also depends on the level of Tobin's Q.
Family firms contribute substantially to the economy of a country. Thus, it is surprising that few studies have considered these firms as an object of analysis, especially regarding the importance of innovation to their economic performance. In an attempt to fill this gap, this paper assesses the importance of innovation and technological capabilities in the performance of family firms in Portugal. Based on a sample comprising 230 firms, 110 of which are family-owned, and on econometric estimation methods, we show that internal factors are more relevant in explaining family firms’ economic performance than contextual factors. Family firms run by CEOs with a degree in engineering or with CEOs and management teams with more international experience tend, on average, to present higher levels of productivity. Additionally, the firms that are more experienced in business and more internationalized are also more productive generally. Notwithstanding family firms being less intensive in R&D than nonfamily ones, innovation is one of the most critical determinants for the performance of the former. Besides the relevance of technological- and innovation-related skills mirrored by investment in R&D, the result of innovation, reflected in the successful introduction of innovations (in marketing and combined), emerges as highly relevant statistically, playing a decisive role in the economic performance of family firms. Family firms that are located in economically less developed regions tend, on average, to present higher productivity levels. This seems to indicate that family firms may constitute a driver of regional convergence regarding dynamics and development.
This study aims to examine the effect of good corporate governance mechanism on the financial performance of banking companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange 2012-2016 period. The corporate governance mechanism is proxied by the size of the board of directors, the size of the board of commissioners, audit committee size, the board of director's education, and the board of commissioner’s education. The company's financial performance is proxied by return on assets (ROA). Samples were taken by using purposive sampling. The total number of samples used in this study amounted to 180 research samples. This study was tested with SPSS 20 program. Data analysis technique used in this research is simple regression analysis.  The results showed that the size of the board of directors, the size of the board of commissioners, and audit comitee size have a significant effect on return on assets. These three factors have a significant effect on return on assets, while the board of commissioners education and the board of director's education have no significant effect on return on assets.
The aim of this paper is to examine whether or not the structure of the board of directors and, in particular, board size, independence and remuneration have an impact on firm performance. The sample examined is UK FTSE 100 non-financial companies using data from the period 2012 to 2015. A regression analysis has been used concluding a significant positive correlation between board remuneration and firm performance, namely Return on Assets and Tobin’s Q. The study also concluded a positive correlation between board size and ROA, and between board independence and Tobin’s Q. Additionally, a significant negative correlation between the control variables (i.e. company size and industry) and Return on Assets.
We examine the incentive effects of CEO inside debt holdings (pensions and deferred compensation) on risk taking using the sample of U.S. publicly traded property–liability insurers. To represent managerial risk taking, we employ value at risk (VaR) and expected shortfall (ES), which capture extreme movements in the lower tail of insurer stock return distribution. We also estimate firm default risk, equity volatilities, and insurance-related risk as alternative measures of risk taking. We document that inside debt represents a significant component of CEOs’ compensation in the insurance industry. We find that there is a significant and negative relationship between CEO inside debt holdings and risk-taking behavior. The results suggest that the structure of executive debt-like compensation could be a potential method of reducing managers’ risk-taking incentives.
Abstract Relying on the assumption that equity market provides useful information for firm decision, this study examines the effect of stock liquidity on corporate capital structure decision. We also analyze whether this effect varies according to country-level institutional environments. Using a comprehensive international dataset of 19,939 firms across 41 countries over 2000–2010, the paper offers two key findings. First, firms with higher stock market liquidity tend to have lower leverage. Second, countries with strong institutional environments are more likely to have a weaker (negative) relationship between stock market liquidity and leverage. These results are robust to different liquidity measurement and subsamples.
Abstract This study develops and tests several bonding theory-derived hypotheses using a panel dataset covering the Chinese firms cross-listed in the US, Hong Kong, Singapore and London over the period 2001–2012. Our empirical results challenge the general postulate of bonding theory that cross-listing in international stock markets helps to improve the corporate and financial performance of firms whose home countries have weaker institutions and lower-level legal enforcement to protect minor investors. We show that the bonding theory only holds partially for Chinese firms cross-listed in the United States markets, whereas it is not evidenced for the rest of share markets in the sample. It is argued that the general bonding theory needs to contextualise endogenous characteristics such as firms’ listing locations.
The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between board size and CEO duality, and corporate social responsibility (CSR). A total of 91 public listed companies from Bursa Malaysia representing the sample of the current study were selected. Secondary data were used and sourced from annual report on the companies. Using descriptive statistics, the existence and the extent of CSR disclosure on Malaysian companies were ascertained. An analysis of the quantitative data was then made using the Partial Least Squares (PLS). The findings from this research show that the role of board size suggest a significant and positive relationship with CSR disclosure. On the other hand, CEO duality on CSR disclosure indicates a negative relationship. This research contributes to the existing literature in terms of the roles of board Size and CEO duality on CSR initiatives. Furthermore, It highlights the necessity of following the new trends in corporate governance field by investigating its mechanisms with the new trendsin financial Industry from Islamic perspective as this might be positively added to the field of corporate governance due to the high significant role for these two fields.
This article examines whether board qualities influence the earnings management behaviour of firms in a large emerging market set-up by using panel data of 783 Indian private manufacturing firms over a period of 7 years (April 2009–March 2016). The study finds that it is board quality that helps in curbing earnings manipulation and not just board independence. Results reveal that diligent and busy boards help in reducing earnings management, CEO duality affects the quality of reported earnings and promoters’ influence on boards increases earnings management. Domestic or foreign institutional investors do not have any independent impact on earnings management. However, domestic institutional ownership reduces earnings management when promoters’ influence exists. The article contributes to the literature by focusing on whether corporate governance (CG) mechanisms are important in curbing earnings management in an emerging market context. The findings are expected to be helpful to policymakers and regulators while framing appropriate CG policies and regulations.
Abstract This meta-analysis takes stock of 121 C.E.O. pay studies published between 1998 and 2018 with the objective of identifying the main drivers of C.E.O. pay from a global perspective and contributing to the agency vs managerial debate on this ground. The meta-results disclose a positive C.E.O. pay–performance correlation (the highest correlation coefficient corresponds to Earnings per share with a 34%) as the agency theory prescribes and the governance policies promote. However, firm size still predominates as the main driver of C.E.O. pay (correlation coefficient is around 44%) according to managerial premises. Moreover, our results reconcile both approaches because results of the meta-regressions suggest that larger companies and more independent boards strengthen the pay–performance association. Additional analyses of moderating factors on C.E.O. pay forces do not provide robust conclusions, though, they suggest: (1) weak impact, if any, of both the Cadbury Report and the S.O.X.; and (2) lack of homogeneity in the banking industry despite its specific regulation.
Abstract Purpose This study examined the effect of corporate governance leadership models and attributes on firms’ earnings quality using evidence from Nigerian quoted firms. Design/Methodology/Approach This study used an ex-post facto design with a two-stage multiple random and fixed effect regression analyses. A sample of 37 quoted firms in Nigerian Stock Exchange between 2014 and 2018 was selected for the study. Findings Relative to unitary corporate leadership, dual board leadership model outperformed and significantly improves earnings persistence and value relevance. Earnings persistence and value relevance increased in boards where CEOs and board chairpersons have equal financial expertise. Also the quality of earnings improved significantly with a good mix of financial expertise and legal skills in the board. Thus, the capital market places a premium on such good leadership attribute mix. Research Limitation This study concentrated on non-financial firms in Nigeria. Thus, it should not primarily be generalized as it is context-specific and most applicable among the developing economies Policy Implication The implication is that investors can mitigate adverse portfolio selection if they target firms, where both CEOs and board chairpersons have strong accounting and legal knowledge mix. Investors should consider board leadership structures in assessing the overall firms’ earnings quality. Leadership roles separation provides for higher reporting quality. Originality This study provides the latest evidence of the effect of board leadership models and attributes on firms’ earnings quality in Nigeria. It makes original contribution to the effect of corporate governance on earnings persistence and predictability and how the market reacts to certain attribute combinations.
To maximize firm value managers must efficiently invest new capital. This paper examines whether analyst coverage impacts a firm’s investment efficiency. Using broker mergers and closures as exogenous shocks to the number of analysts covering a firm we find that firm investment efficiency significantly decreases after losing an analyst. The impact is largest for firms with the fewest number of analysts. We find evidence that the effect is driven by the role analysts play in information acquisition and in price efficiency. The results suggest that the recent decline in analyst coverage may negatively impact resource allocation and future firm performance.
The paper shows that higher valuation of family firms occurs only for family firms founded by several non-related people (multi-family cofounding firms). The evidence suggests that having at least two unrelated cofounders involved in management reduces agency problems through mutual monitoring. Relative to single-family founding firms, multi-family cofounding firms are more likely to force out founders and less likely to allow descendants to take control after founders retire
ABSTRACT East African Community’s (EAC) corporations are required to follow a regional treaty of mainstreaming gender equality. This article discusses challenges encountered by corporate boards of the EAC’s corporations when adding women. Agency and resource dependence theories led the study, while a review of the literature was the methodology. We discuss the benefits of diverse boards and challenges faced when developing this diversity. We show how power distance, masculinity, and certainty avoidance prevent women from corporate boards. Furthermore, we discuss how social orientation and business environment impact women’s participation. The article discusses various strategies to be considered for increasing diversity.
We investigate the extent to which market participants use compensation payouts released in the DEF 14A proxy statement (DEF14A) to assess future firm performance by examining sell-side analysts’ earnings forecasts. Consistent with prior work, we confirm that CEO compensation unexplained by current observable economic factors is positively associated with future firm performance. We find that both the likelihood that analysts revise their forecasts following release of the DEF14A and the magnitude and direction of analysts’ forecast revisions are positively associated with unexplained CEO compensation. These associations are stronger after the SEC required additional compensation-related disclosures in late 2006, but lower if the firm has weak corporate governance or more precise other information. Analysts’ reactions are not complete, however. Analysts’ forecast errors measured months after the DEF14A release are associated with past unexplained compensation, especially in the pre-2006 period and for analysts who do not revise at the DEF14A release. Taken together, our results suggest that compensation payouts released in the DEF14A contain useful forward-looking information that is recognized by at least some sophisticated market participants, and that the increased disclosure regulations assisted market participants in incorporating this information.
This paper empirically analyzes the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on the relation between measures of corporate governance and a firm’s dividend policy in the U.S. equity market. Using the IRRC database, we find that there is a statistically significant relation between governance measures and a firm’s dividend policy in the years prior to the introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, following Sarbanes-Oxley, the relation between a firm’s governance structure and dividend policy changes. In particular, shareholders’ rights and the proportion of outside directors are no longer significant in explaining a firm’s dividend policy.
This paper first employs principal component analysis technique to develop and introduce an alternative UK corporate governance disclosure index to the US‐centric ones. Second, we then investigate whether this new corporate governance disclosure index can determine the level of executive pay (including CEOs, CFOs, and all executive directors) in UK listed firms, and consequently ascertain whether the governance mechanisms can moderate the pay‐for‐performance sensitivity. Employing data on corporate governance, executive pay and performance from 2008 to 2013, we find that, on average, better‐governed firms tend to pay their executives lower compared with their poorly‐governed counterparts. Additionally, our findings suggest that the pay‐for‐performance sensitivity is generally positive, but improves in firms with high corporate governance quality, implying that the pay‐for‐performance sensitivity is contingent on the quality of internal governance structures. We interpret our findings within the predictions of optimal contracting theory and managerial power hypothesis.
Research Summary: This study analyzes how the divestitures that are impelled by activist investors in their campaigns against public corporations affect shareholder value. Using hand‐collected data on the activist campaigns that were launched against and the divestitures that were undertaken by Fortune 500 companies between 2007 and 2015, we find that activist‐impelled divestitures are more positively associated with immediate and longer‐term measures of shareholder value than comparable manager‐led divestitures. These performance differences persist for nearly two years after the completion of these deals. Our results empirically test the idea that firms with agency problems unlock shareholder value when they divest, and support the notion that activist investors fulfill an important external governance function. Our work also opens new research opportunities and offers practical implications as well. Managerial Summary: This study investigates how divestitures that are undertaken at the behest of activist investors affect shareholder value. We find that divestitures that were undertaken under pressure from activist investors are associated with more positive shareholder returns than comparable divestitures that were undertaken voluntarily by managers. These performance differences persist for nearly two years after the completion of these deals, alleviating concerns about the purported short‐termism of activist investors. Our findings suggest that activist investors may fulfill an important governance function by inducing managers to undertake strategies that they might not otherwise pursue, thereby unlocking shareholder value.
Using Community Innovation Survey data from France, we provide an empirical analysis of the innovative efforts of a sample of manufacturing firms that underwent a leveraged buyout. We find no evidence that LBOs have a negative effect on firm level of innovation expenditure. In contrast, results suggest that buyouts have a positive effect on incremental innovation and that private equity firms help to make innovation spending more effective and even more efficient. It could be that private equity firms help the company to focus on its core innovative capabilities and bring innovative products to the market without increasing innovation spending.
This paper investigates the effect of board and audit committee independence on firm market performance. Using a sample of French listed firms, we find a negative and significant relation between board independence and equity returns. This suggests that appointing more independent directors fails in enhancing firm stock returns. Furthermore, we show that firms with independent audit committees exhibit higher equity returns. We analyze three portfolios sorted by the percentage of independent directors on boards and audit committees using Carhart’s model and find that the portfolio of firms with low board independence and high audit committee independence exhibits the highest abnormal returns.
 JEL Classification: G34, G11
This paper extends the work of Balachandran and Faff (2015) and reviews the literature on effective governance, financial markets, institutions, and crises. Specifically, we discuss the various monitoring mechanisms including independent directors, institutional investors, market for corporate control, and their effect on value creation. We further explore the important connection between the role of financial institutions as delegated monitors and the associated issues of bank governance, bank capital and systemic risk. Finally, our paper encompasses and highlights the papers featured in this special issue on the theme “Financial Markets, Institutions, governance and Crises”.

Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to report on the results of a study carried out to determine the use of Management Accounting Practices (MAPR) in Ugandan secondary schools. The study also sought to determine whether MAPR and governing boards (board size, gender diversity and frequency of board meetings) influence the perceived competitive advantage.


Design/methodology/approach
This study is cross-sectional and correlational. Data were collected through a questionnaire survey of 200 secondary schools. The data were analysed through ordinary least squares regression using Statistical Package for Social Scientists.


Findings
There are wide variations in MAP in terms of the extent to which the schools employ management accounting techniques. Also, MAP and governing boards have a predictive force on the schools’ competitive advantage. However, governing board’s size has no effect on competitive advantage. In terms of the control variables, the results suggest that while government school ownership has a positive effect on competitive advantage, the school’s size has no effect. There are intertwining relationships of frequency of board meetings, board size and school size.


Research limitations/implications
The present study was limited to the secondary schools in Uganda which limits generalisability. Still, the results offer important implications for secondary schools’ governing boards, owners and for similar African governments who are a major stakeholder in the secondary school education system. The exact mechanism by which intertwining relationships of frequency of board meetings, board size and school size impact competitive advantage is not been explored in this paper. Future researchers may direct research effort in this endeavour.


Originality/value
To the authors’ knowledge, this is the first study to investigate use of MAPR in secondary schools and to provide evidence of their efficacy.

We study the interaction between the legal system and the takeover auction process during the 1981 to 2015 time period. We associate the strengthening of the property rights of target boards after the 1989 Time Inc. decision with fundamental changes in the takeover auction process. Following the 1989 decision, takeover auctions have moved from public and often hostile battles to a more behind the scenes, underground process where target boards control both the number of bidders and the flow of information. Target boards are more likely to initiate the auction themselves and the time between deal initiation (in private) and public deal announcement has significantly lengthened. Accounting for the increasing length of the deal initiation process, target premiums have significantly risen since 1989. Our property rights interpretation contrasts with the entrenchment story that argues that the decline in hostile takeovers has protected poorly performing management at the expense of target shareholders. Our results are consistent with the fundamental proposition of Coase (1959, 1960) that with well-defined property rights, resources flow to their highest valued use.
The authors explore the effect of an employee stock ownership plan on firm value and examine the following important findings. First, they reveal that a firm with better corporate governance, such as a higher directors’ holding ratio, higher institutional holding ratio, and small board size will have better stock price performance resulting in the enhancement of firm value. Second, firms with higher institutional holdings that are implementing an ESOP actually might not enhance firm value, compared to firms with higher institutional holdings that do not implement an ESOP; this may be the result of interest and influence by institutional investors who are likely to be affected by the ESOP. The authors explain that understanding these results may be useful for investors in personal financial planning and wealth management in terms of screening investing targets.
* This essay forms the basis for a presentation that I will make at the annual conference of the Institute for New Economic Thinking in Edinburgh, Scotland, October 23, 2017. It also provides the substance of my Freeman Lecture at the 15 Globelics Conference at the National Technical University of Athens in Athens, Greece, on October 11, 2017 as well as my contribution to the Conference on the Many Futures of Work, run by the Institute for Work and the Economy in Chicago, Illinois, October 5, 2017.
Abstract Using data from a single database of Colombian firms, we confirmed an endogenous relationship between specific board characteristics, compliance with corporate governance guidelines, and firm performance. A board comprising experts without conflicts of interest is more likely to control ethical behavior, implement audit committees, review compliance with accepted accounting standards, and approve and control the firm’s strategic planning, all of which will lead to an improvement in firm results, and engagement and retention of higher quality board members. Conclusions have strong implications for public policy and managerial practice.
This paper examines whether and to what extent CEO personal traits (hubris, in particular) affect firm environmental innovation. Using the overarching theoretical framework of upper-echelons theory, the paper builds on the insights from the corporate strategy, innovation, and corporate social responsibility literatures. We also examine the moderating role of firm-specific features (e.g. organizational slack) and the external environment (e.g. market uncertainty) in this context. Based on a sample of UK companies operating in sensitive industries, we find that CEO hubris facilitates the engagement in green innovative projects. We also find that CEO hubris does not have a uniform effect: its effect on environmental innovation increases with the organizational slack, but weakens with the extent of environmental uncertainty. Our findings suggest that availability of resources per se is not enough to produce environmental innovation. Instead, it requires a stable external environment that enables the CEO with a hubristic personality to make a correct use of them.
Research Summary: We propose that due to financial market pressures, managers are forward‐looking in their search and decision processes and focus on meeting performance targets set by the financial community. Using panel data on S&P 100 companies, we find that pressure felt by management to meet the analyst consensus earnings estimate influences the extent of corporate downsizing. Moreover, our results show that high levels of institutional investor stock ownership and CEO power attenuate managers’ sensitivity to financial market pressures, while high levels of analyst coverage increase their sensitivity. Managerial Summary: In this study we examine how financial market pressures influence managers’ downsizing decisions. We argue that investment analysts’ earnings estimates represent important performance targets to which managers aspire. If firms fail to meet analysts’ expectations, the stock price will suffer. This study shows that managers utilize corporate downsizing to address the potential shortfall between a firm's future performance and the analyst consensus earnings estimate. In addition, we find that managers’ concerns over meeting analysts’ earnings estimates are influenced by various contextual factors such as institutional investor stock ownership, CEO power, and high levels of analyst coverage.
We develop a theory of corporate boards and their role in forcing CEO turnover. We consider a firm with an incumbent CEO of uncertain management ability and a board consisting of a number of directors whose role is to evaluate the CEO and fire her if a better replacement can be found. Each board member receives an independent private signal about the CEO's ability, after which board members vote on firing the CEO (or not). If the CEO is fired, the board hires a new CEO from the pool of candidates available. The true ability of the rm's CEO is revealed in the long run; the firm's long-run share price is determined by this ability. Each board member owns some equity in the firm, and thus prefers to fire a CEO of poor ability. However, if a board member votes to fire the incumbent CEO but the number of other board members also voting to fire her is not enough to successfully oust her, the CEO can impose significant costs of dissent on him. In this setting, we show that the board faces a coordination problem, leading it to retain an incompetent CEO even when a majority of board members receive private signals indicating that she is of poor quality. We solve for the optimal board size, and show that it depends on various board and rm characteristics: one size does not fit all firms. We develop extensions to our basic model to analyze the optimal composition of the board between firm insiders and outsiders and the effect of board members observing imprecise public signals in addition to their private signals on board decision-making. Finally, we develop a dynamic extension to our basic model to analyze why many boards do not fire CEOs even when they preside over a signi cant, publicly observable, reduction in shareholder wealth over a long period of time. We use this dynamic model to distinguish between the characteristics of such boards from those that fire bad CEOs proactively, before significant shareholder wealth reductions take place.
This study investigates the determination of French CEO Compensation. Based on a panel sample of 153 French listed firms between 2003 and 2012, we find U-shaped relationship between State Ownership (SO) and CEO compensation. We attempt to fill the gap of previous French empirical research, which has been limited to cross-sectional studies and has focused on other types of shareholders, using panel data over a period of ten years. The non-monotonic relationship between SO and CEO compensation is initially negative, and then becomes positive with increasing State’s voting rights.
Purpose –The extant literature is divided regarding the impacts of firm size on financial derivatives and the empirical studies provide conflicting results and offer opposing viewpoints. There is strong evidence to suggest that firm characteristics differ between larger and smaller sized firms and that derivative users are generally larger firms. Firm size may also influence the risk management behavior of corporate governance and reveal some biases and personal agendas. However, this area is largely unexplored and warrants investigation. This is the first study that examines whether corporate governance risk management over financial derivatives is sensitive to firm size considerations. 
Design/methodology/approach – The authors employ Maddala’s simultaneous equations methodology to examine the firm’s derivatives usage simultaneously with debt borrowings, as both form basis of the capital structure decisions of the firm. Further we split the data into large and small size firms to examine the size effects of corporate governance risk behavior, departing from the method employed in the derivatives literature. 
Findings – The authors provide empirical evidence to suggest that corporate governance is consistent in their risk management of financial derivatives use and that they are not influenced by any firm size considerations. 
Research limitations/implications – Additional examination of the risk and value effects on firm performance based on firm-size differences would provide additional insights into the hedging effectiveness of corporate governance in respect to financial derivatives. 
Practical implications – The findings provide assurance that corporate governance is not influenced by firm size with respect to financial derivatives. Therefore, governance regulations and accounting standards requirements do not need to provide any restrictions/modifications on the size of firms employing financial derivatives instruments. 
Originality/Value – This is the first study to examine the effects of firm size on corporate governance risk management over financial derivatives. The area is unexplored and has far reaching consequences. If firm size has an impact on corporate governance, then regulators would need to develop varying controls based on the firm size to cater to differences in risk management by corporate governance. As it is corporate governance mechanisms do not make any distinctions based on firm size, and the study supports the need for one set of corporate governance controls across all size firms.
This paper examines the relationship between performance persistence and corporate governance (as proxied for by board characteristics and shareholder structure). We document systematic differences in performance persistence across listed companies in China during 2001–2011, and empirically demonstrate that firms with better corporate governance show higher performance persistence. The results are robust over both the short and long terms. We also find that performance persistence is an important factor in refinancing, and it can lower companies’ costs of borrowing. Overall, our findings offer important implications for business ethics, as we demonstrate how corporate governance can lower companies’ costs of debt.
We investigate whether and how the primary market values the innovations of newly public firms at their initial public offerings (IPOs) by examining the link between the size (the number of patents) and the quality (citation count) of their patent portfolios and IPO valuations. We find that the number of patents, the citation count, and innovation efficiency (IE; patents or citations scaled by research and development expenditure) are positively associated with offer price multiples but the effect of the number of patents subsumes that of the citation count/IE. There is no significant effect of patent portfolios on price revisions or first-day returns, suggesting that underwriters/firms price information on innovation quantity and quality in the offer prices and the market makes no further price adjustment on innovation information. The positive effect of innovation quantity on IPO valuation subsumes that of innovation quality. We also demonstrate that the link between patent portfolios and IPO valuations is stronger in the later sample period. Using Tobin’s Q as another IPO valuation measure produces similar results. We obtain no evidence that an IPO’s patent portfolio is overvalued in the primary market, as the number of patents and the citation count are not significantly associated with long-run stock and operating performances.
The paper explores some mechanisms of corporate governance (ownership and board characteristics) in Spanish listed companies and their impact on the likelihood of financial distress. An empirical study was conducted between 2007 and 2012 using a matched-pairs research design with 308 observations, with half of them classified as distressed and non-distressed. Based on the previous study by Pindado, Rodrigues, and De la Torre (2008), a broader concept of bankruptcy is used to define business failure. Employing several conditional logistic models, as well as to other previous studies on bankruptcy, the results confirm that in difficult situations prior to bankruptcy, the impact of board ownership and proportion of independent directors on business failure likelihood are similar to those exerted in more extreme situations. These results go one step further, to offer a negative relationship between board size and the likelihood of financial distress. This result is interpreted as a form of creating diversity and to improve the access to the information and resources, especially in contexts where the ownership is highly concentrated and large shareholders have a great power to influence the board structure. However, the results confirm that ownership concentration does not have a significant impact on financial distress likelihood in the Spanish context. It is argued that large shareholders are passive as regards an enhanced monitoring of management and, alternatively, they do not have enough incentives to hold back the financial distress. These findings have important implications in the Spanish context, where several changes in the regulatory listing requirements have been carried out with respect to corporate governance, and where there is no empirical evidence regarding this respect.
We examine how firm characteristics, particularly the degree of firm complexity and the firm’s need for specialty knowledge, affect the relationship between corporate governance and the risk of bankruptcy. We find that having larger boards reduces the risk of bankruptcy only for complex firms. Our results also suggest that the proportion of inside directors on the board is inversely associated with the risk of bankruptcy in firms that require more specialist knowledge and that the reverse is true in technically unsophisticated firms. The results further reveal that the additional explanatory power from corporate governance variables becomes stronger as the time to bankruptcy is increased, implying that although corporate governance variables are important predictors, governance changes are likely to be too late to save a firm on the verge of bankruptcy.
Are courts effective monitors of corporate decisions? In a controversial landmark case, the Delaware Supreme Court held directors personally liable for breaching their fiduciary duties, signaling a sharp increase in Delaware’s scrutiny over corporate decisions. In our event study, low-growth Delaware firms outperformed matched non-Delaware firms by 1% in the three day event window. In contrast, high-growth Delaware firms under-performed by 1%. Contrary to previous literature, we conclude that court decisions can have large, significant and heterogeneous effects on firm value, and that rules insulating directors from court scrutiny benefit the fastest growing sectors of the economy.
This is a study centred on the impact of the specific set of HRM practices on organisational performance (OP) within an emerging market setting. It seeks to explore which HR practices are most closely associated with better OP within the financial services industry in Jordan based on a survey of managers and the annual reports of the companies encompassed by the study. It was found that the only HR practice seen to consistently impact on OP was training; in other words, we did not encounter any recognisable ‘bundle’ of HR practices that optimised OP across the sector. We argue that this reflects the weaker and more partially coupled nature of institutions in many emerging markets, which makes it difficult to generate the type of complementarities associated between regulation and practice in mature markets. It also reflects the limited transferability of perceived best practice models in the context of emerging market settings. Although belied by objective firm performance data, many respondents believed that it was not only training but also the extensive usage of extrinsic incentives (pay and promotion) that would translate into superior results. This highlights the limitations of relying on managerial reported performance data in exploring the consequences of specific HR practices.
This study explores the impact of independent bank directors' financial industry expertise on the effectivenenss of board functioning by investigating bank performance following a CEO turnover. Empirical results show that following a forced CEO turnover, independent financial industry expertise improves bank performance while decreases bank risk-taking. This is likely because industry-specific expertise enhances boards’ ability to locate a superior successor CEO and to monitor and advise the new management following a forced CEO turnover. The market reaction to the announcements of a forced bank CEO turnover tends to be consistent with this view.
This article adopts an agency perspective of the firm and reviews the mergers and acquisitions literature from the lens of corporate governance. We highlight how the different corporate governance mechanisms affect the takeover process and outcomes. The internal and external governance mechanisms that we consider are: the board of directors, the takeover market, blockholders, financial markets in general, product market competition, and the labor market.
The corporate finance literature documents that managers tend to overinvest into physical assets. A number of theoretical contributions have aimed to explain this stylized fact, most of them focussing on a fundamental agency problem between shareholders and managers. The present paper shows that overinvestments are not necessarily the (negative) consequence of agency problems between shareholders and managers, but instead might be a second-best optimal response if the scope of court-enforceable contracts is limited. In such an environment a firm has to rely on relational contracts in order to manage the agency relationship with its workforce. The paper shows that investments into physical productive assets enhance the enforceability of relational contracts and hence investments optimally are “too high”.
Prior research has documented both positive (John and Litov, 2009) and negative (Berger, Ofek, and Yermack, 1997) relationships between managerial entrenchment and the use of debt. This paper further investigates the impact of corporate governance on firm leverage by taking into account the substitution effect of different governance mechanisms. Consistent with John and Litov (2009), we find that antitakeover provisions have a positive effect on firm leverage. However, this effect disappears when we control for the interaction effect between antitakeover provisions and board power, measured by board independence. More specifically, we find that entrenched managers operate highly leveraged firms only if they are exposed to powerful boards. The result of this positive relationship between firm leverage and the interaction of board power and antitakeover provisions continues to hold even after we consider other governance variables.
Despite significant interest in corporate culture, there is little empirical research on its role in influencing corporate misconduct. Using cultural background information on key company insiders, I construct a measure of corporate corruption culture, capturing a firm's general attitude toward opportunistic behavior. Firms with high corruption culture are more likely to engage in earnings management, accounting fraud, option backdating, and opportunistic insider trading. I further explore the inner workings of corruption culture and find evidence that it operates both as a selection mechanism and by having a direct influence on individual behavior.
We examine the relationship between board independence, family control, and operating efficiency, and the moderating effect of family control on the relationship between board independence and operating efficiency. We apply the dynamic slacks-based measure (DSBM) model to estimate operating efficiency. Using a sample of 42 Taiwanese listed semiconductor companies for the period 2005-2012, we employ truncated regression with a bootstrapping procedure for multivariate analysis. The presence of board independence is significantly positively related to operating efficiency. Family control has a negative impact on operating efficiency. The positive effect of board independence on operating efficiency is significantly weakened in family companies.
Outside directors’ pay mix determines if and to which extent a firm's designated monitor is incentivized by means of performance related (PR) pay. Owning families of public firms, still having substantial influence on the compensation process, need to balance the family's genuine interest against PR pay and non-family stakeholders’ contrasting preferences in setting the right mix. At first, family and non-family firms show no difference regarding the adoption of PR pay. However, among PR pay adopters, we find family firms to devote greater shares to this pay component, thus sacrificing part of their socioemotional wealth in order to meet stakeholders’ demand. A differentiation between different types of family firms reveals that especially true family firms, i.e. firms managed or owned by at least two family members, account for this particular behavior.
We find that annual shareholder meetings conducted online can greatly increase the participation of shareholders, especially retail shareholders. This finding is more evident when the cost of physically attending such a meeting is higher and when the firm’s ownership is more dispersed. We further document significant positive stock returns when firms initiate online annual meetings. We also find that retail shareholders indeed actively voice their concerns by voting against the proposals that potentially hurt their interests. Overall, we provide evidence that online shareholder meetings provide shareholders a cost-effective way to participate in governance issues.
Past research discerns that companies following sound governance practices are valued better in the market. Since board of directors play a very crucial role in corporate governance, the present study has identified some selected voluntary board practices and examined them with the help of a sample of top listed companies in India. The analysis covered in this paper provide insights into the association between voluntary board practices followed by the companies with a special emphasis on CEO non-duality i.e. separating the roles of CEO and board Chairman. The other selected voluntary board practices include the existence of outsidercontrolled board, majority-independent board, super active board and the establishment of completely independent audit committee. The study also highlights the role of firm size in the relationships between selected voluntary board practices. In particular, this investigation divulges that there exists an association between some of the selected voluntary board practices and these relationships do vary according to the firm size status in magnitude as well as direction.
M&As: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly M&As should be defined to include mergers, acquisitions, takeovers, tender offers, alliances, joint ventures, minority equity investments, licensing, divestitures, spin-offs, splitups, carve-outs, leveraged buyouts, leveraged recapitalizations, dual-class recapitalizations, reorganizations, restructuring, and recontracting associated with financial distress and other adjustments. M&As represent a neoclassical theory of how firms seek to enhance their capabilities and resources (the good). Good M&As are positive net present value external investments. What is common to all our sample companies is that (1) M&As represent a wide range of methods to develop growth opportunities. (2) These programs have long and multiple year time horizons. (3) These companies continuously revise the portfolios of products and markets in which they seek to develop value increasing investment programs. These are clear illustrations of a real options approach to capital budgeting decisions. Competing explanations of M&A activities include redistribution theories (the bad) and behavioral theories (the ugly). Redistribution theories hold that M&As are motivated by tax benefits, market power, extractions from bondholders, breach of trust with labor, and shifting pension costs to the government. Behavioral theories include hubris, market misvaluations, agency, and organizational theories. Both the redistribution and behavioral theories argue that M&As represent departures from neoclassical economic behavior. This paper investigates the relative roles of the three competing explanations of M&As. [G33, G34]
This paper empirically studies agency conflict by using a shareholder approval rule governing private placements. NASDAQ and other exchanges require shareholder approval for discounted, placements that make up more than 20% of existing shares. I document a distribution discontinuity around the threshold and identify many managers who avoid approval by keeping the fraction of new shares just below 20%. Shareholder avoiding firms have negative and 4.32% lower announcement day abnormal returns than firms that gain approval. Moreover, shareholder avoiding firms are less distressed and issue at higher discounts. Overall, my findings are consistent with managerial entrenchment.
type="main" xml:id="acfi12061-abs-0001"> Accounting and Finance (A&F ) has experienced a surge in published research in the last decade. The analysis here reveals a marked increase in the number of published articles in A&F since 2003, a distinct trend for published papers to have a larger number of authors, a significant and stable contribution by the top 5 Australian accounting/finance departments, as well as a notable increase in contribution from non-US foreign universities, particularly those located in the UK, Canada, Hong Kong, Singapore and Spain. An analysis of citations indicates the increasing impact of A&F in recent years.
Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), as a recent disruptive development in distance education enabled by advanced information technologies, are gaining increasing popularity and transforming higher education. Why are some schools eager to embrace this open model of teaching, while at the same time some others are reluctant to jump onboard? Applying the theory of exploration and exploitation (March 1991), we model universities’ decision to adopt MOOCs as an explorative activity, and analyze the tradeoffs they face when allocating their resources in balancing exploration and exploitation. By examining the complete history of MOOC adoption by US colleges and universities, we find that slack financial and human resources are positively associated with the decision to become a MOOC producer, but a university in a highly competitive situation is less likely to explore MOOC production, possibly for strategic reasons. Interestingly, we also find evidence that these factors have heterogeneous effects on different types of higher education institutions. For example, while research schools (compared to teaching schools) are more likely to use their slack resources to explore MOOCs, both research and teaching schools are similarly constrained by competitive pressure in their decisions on adopting MOOCs. We discuss the implications for research and practice.
This paper examines the effect of new CEOs on subsequent firm performance from the perspective of innovation. We find that new CEOs are associated with significantly greater quantities and qualities of future innovations, measured with the number of patents, citations, patents per research and development dollar, and citations per patent in the subsequent three-year and five-year periods. New internal CEOs are associated with more and better innovation than new external CEOs. We also find that innovation quantity and quality are positively associated with CEO overconfidence, option compensation, and information asymmetries. These empirical results are robust to controlling for potential endogeneity issues and also remain in a sample of firms that experience the sudden deaths of their CEOs.
This study has been conducted to investigate the impact of corporate governance attributes especially board attributes on the decision of dividend payment of firms in developing economy of Pakistan. Board attributes are measured by three variables: Board Size, Board Independence, and CEO duality while dividend payment decision is measured by a dummy variable DIVID. A total of 77 non financial firms listed on Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) are used to determine the relationship of the board attributes and decision of dividend payment of firms for the period 2007 to 2011. Descriptive statistics, Correlation Matrix, Logistic Regression, and Probit regression are used for the analysis of data. A significant positive relationship is found between the Board Size and dummy variable DIVID. It has also been found that presence of Independent Board leads to no declaration of dividend payment. The study also found insignificant positive relationship between the CEO duality and DIVID of the firms.
This article reviews the conglomerate literature, with a focus on recent papers that have cast strong doubt on the hypothesis that conglomerate firms destroy value on average when compared to similar stand-alone firms. Recent work has shown that investment decisions by conglomerate firms are consistent with value maximization; conglomerate firms trade at an average premium relative to single-segment firms when value weighting; and the valuation premia and discounts, both for conglomerates and single-segment firms, are driven by differences in the production of unique differentiated products. A profit-maximizing theory of the firm that considers how firms select their organizational structure can explain these recent findings and much of the large variation in findings in the conglomerate literature. We also review the literature showing how market imperfections create additional benefits and costs for internal capital markets and a potential for managerial distortions.
This study examines the relationship between accounting conservatism and internal control weaknesses (ICW) in the post–Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) period when the U.S. firms have been subject to higher regulations and enhanced corporate oversight and scrutiny. Our multivariate analyses show that the firms having ICW, especially the firms with company-level ICW, have significantly changed their conservative reporting practice from the pre- to the post-SOX period. The analyses further show that the ICW firms exhibit greater accounting conservatism in the post-SOX period compared with the firms with effective internal controls (non-ICW). The result is mostly driven by increased conditional conservatism by the firms having company-level ICW that are more pervasive in effect, less auditable, and more difficult to detect and prevent. Furthermore, we find that the difference in conservatism between ICW and non-ICW firms is more prominent in the first 3 post-SOX years than in the last 3 post-SOX years of the sample period. These findings suggest that enhanced corporate oversight and scrutiny have induced the ICW firms to use more accounting conservatism in an effort to reduce reporting uncertainty, enhance information reliability, and promote contracting efficiency. Our findings are consistent with prior studies that demonstrate a shift in the U.S. firms’ financial reporting strategies in response to stringent regulations and governance in the post-SOX period.
Prior literature documents that larger boards pursue conservative investment policies and that their decision outcomes are moderate which promote an environment of risk-aversion. I argue that this risk-aversion hurts equity holders when firms hold a larger amount of long-term debt. Addressing potential endogeneity problems associated with board size, I find an equity discount associated with larger boards in firms that have greater amounts of long-term debt. On the other hand, larger boards are associated with an equity premium when firms have a greater short-term debt to assets ratio. The equity discount associated with larger boards disappears in firms with no long-term debt. Further analysis also indicates that firms with larger boards enjoy a better credit rating and a lower realized cost of debt. Overall, analysis in this study suggests that the association between board size and equity value is a function of a firm’s debt structure.
In a transition economy, corporate investment decisions are affected not only by managerial discretion, but also by government intervention. Using the data of publicly listed state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in China, we investigate how government intervention and corporate managerial entrenchment affect over-investment. The results show that both the policy burden from government intervention and rent-seeking due to managerial entrenchment can lead to over-investments, and these two effects appear to be complementary to each other. With a weak government intervention, managerial discretion is greater and management behavior tends toward opportunism.
We examine the association between the presence of monitoring board committees (i.e., audit, nomination, and remuneration) and market valuation in South Africa using a sample of listed corporations. We find a significant positive connection between the presence of monitoring board committees and market valuation, but only in corporations that have independent monitoring board committees and/or all three monitoring board committees that we have investigated simultaneously. This implies that the market values corporations with independent and/or the three monitoring board committees more highly. Our results provide empirical support for agency theory, which indicates that the presence of independent board committees increases the capacity of corporate boards to effectively advise, monitor and discipline top management, and thereby improving market valuation.
Institutional failure of societal sectors has become a challenging subject of public inquiry since the financial crisis. In this paper these sectors are conceptualized as publicly governed networks of organization executives, supervisory boards, regulatory agencies, and governmental representatives. This type of network is approached as a complex adaptive system. A theoretical framework is set up to determine under which conditions the networks fail. The predictive and explanatory power of the framework is tested in a particular case, namely the Dutch public housing sector. The Dutch central state has applied both new public management and network governance techniques to promote self-regulating and responsible operation of the housing corporations. At this moment, all participants critique this transformation because of continuing organizational breakdowns and inability of the network to correct failures in advance. A conclusion is that ill-considered network governance engenders drawbacks and might even escalate into a sector crisis.
Financial statement fraud has cost market participants, including investors, employees, creditors, and pensioners. Capital market participants expect active and vigilant corporate governance to ensure the quality, integrity, and transparency of financial information. Financial statement fraud is a serious threat to market participants’ confidence in published audited financial statements. Financial statement fraud has recently received considerable attention from the business community, accounting profession, academicians, and regulators. This paper sheds light on the factors that may increase the likelihood of financial statement fraud. This study empirically tests the impact of board of commissioners and audit committee effectiveness, ownership structure, bank monitoring, and the firm life cycle on the probability of accounting fraud. Hypothesis testing was carried out by using logistic regression model using fraud data from BAPEPAM-LK (Indonesia Stock Exchange Supervisory Agency) during the years of 2005-2011. The result of this study indicates that the audit committee effectiveness and controlled family ownership reduce the fraud probability. However, the effectiveness of board commissioners, foreign ownership, bank monitoring, and the firm life cycle do not have any effect on fraud probability. Keywords: fraud, board of commissioner effectiveness, audit committee effectiveness, ownership structure, bank monitoring, firm life cycle --- Kecurangan pelaporan keuangan menimbulkan kerugian bagi pelaku pasar, antara lain investor, pegawai, kreditur. Kecurangan ini juga merupakan ancaman yang serius bagi para pelaku pasar modal. Pelaku pasar modal mengharapkan laporan keuangan yang transparan, berkualitas, dan dapat dipercaya integritasnya. Penelitian ini bertujuan menguji pengaruh efektifitas peran dewan komisaris dan komite audit, struktur kepemilikan, peran monitoring bank, dan siklus hidup perusahaan terhadap probabilita terjadinya kecurangan pelaporan keuangan. Pengujian hipotesis dilakukan dengan menggunakan metode regresi logistik dengan menggunakan data sanksi yang dikenakan pada perusahaan yang melakukan kecurangan pelaporan keuangan, yang diperoleh dari Bapepam-LK dari tahun 2005 sampai dengan 2011. Hasil penelitian ini menunjukkan bahwa efektifitas peran komite audit dan struktur kepemilikan keluarga berpengaruh negatif terhadap probabilita terjadinya kecurangan pelaporan keuangan. Hal ini mengindikasikan efektifitas komite audit dan kepemilikan yang dikendalikan oleh keluarga dapat mengurangi probabilita terjadinya kecurangan pelaporan keuangan. Kata kunci: fraud, corporate governance, efektifitas komite audit, struktur kepemilikan, pengawasan bank, siklus hidup perusahaan
The Board of Directors plays a key role as a mechanism of internal corporate governance. Indeed, its effectiveness is dependent on the presence of several factors, the most important are related to characteristics that relate primarily to the independence of its members, board size, combining the functions of decision and control and the degree of independence of the audit committee and gender diversity of the board. To test the validity of our hypothesis, which states the existence of a deterministic characteristic of the board on financial performance measured by three different ratios, namely ROA, ROE and Tobin's Q, we have developed three linear regression models. Our empirical validation was conducted on a sample of 26 companies listed on the Tunisian stock exchange Tunis (Tunis Stock Exchange) over a period that spans four years (2007- 2010). The estimated models show satisfactory results showing the importance of the impact of board characteristics on financial performance of Tunisian companies.
We provide evidence that firms appoint independent directors who are overly sympathetic to management, while still technically independent according to regulatory definitions. We explore a subset of independent directors for whom we have detailed, microlevel data on their views regarding the firm prior to being appointed to the board: sell-side analysts who are subsequently appointed to the boards of companies they previously covered. We find that boards appoint overly optimistic analysts who are also poor relative performers. The magnitude of the optimistic bias is large: 82.0% of appointed recommendations are strong buy/buy recommendations, compared with 56.9% for all other analyst recommendations. We also show that appointed analysts' optimism is stronger at precisely those times when firms' benefits are larger. Last, we find that appointing firms are more likely to have management on the board nominating committee, appear to be poorly governed, and increase earnings management and chief executive officer compensation following these board appointments. 
 
This paper was accepted by Brad Barber, finance.
This study aims to investigate the extent to which the Indonesian corporate governance mechanism acts as an effective tool for protecting financial statements users against accounting irregularities. Considering that accounting irregularities might occur in between error and the fraud act, this study reviews the literature on minimizing the seriousness of these reporting incidences. The level of seriousness in misstatements is more severe when: (1) there is absence of financial expert(s) on supervisory boards and audit committees, (2) companies have short tenured-CEOs and poor internal control systems, and (3) auditors are solely appointed by firms’ BOCs without agreement of block holders (known as referral). In addition, an examination of simultaneous effects of each corporate governance dimension reveals a general weakness of the BOCs and their audit committees. However, the BOC and audit committee could be an effective tool in mitigating reporting incidences, especially when they show high-quality collaboration.
We examine the impact of takeover bids on the function of internal incentive plan with a sample of takeover targets that successfully avoid the takeover attempts. Before the bids, unsuccessful takeover targets perform poorly in the stock market. Their CEOs are paid less, get less job security, and could benefit less from the completion of the takeovers, relative to the counterparts in completed takeover targets documented by Hartzell, Ofek, and Yermack (2004. Review of Financial Studies 17, 3761). Following the unsuccessful bids, target firms fire undoing managements, construct severance contracts and grant a substantial restricted stocks and options to the CEOs. Their pay-performance sensitivity becomes stronger following the bids, and stock performance is also much better than before. Our study provides support to the theoretical argument that the threat of corporate takeover has a positive effect on the function of internal control mechanism in incentive alignment.
