We describe monocrystalline graphitic films, which are a few atoms thick but are nonetheless stable under ambient conditions, metallic, and of remarkably high quality. The films are found to be a two-dimensional semimetal with a tiny overlap between valence and conductance bands, and they exhibit a strong ambipolar electric field effect such that electrons and holes in concentrations up to 1013 per square centimeter and with room-temperature mobilities of ∼10,000 square centimeters per volt-second can be induced by applying gate voltage.
Abstract The present paper is concerned with nonlinear vibration of a simply supported functionally graded graphene reinforced composite (GRC) cylindrical panel subjected to the transverse excitation. Functionally graded structure is proposed to distribute more graphene platelets (GPLs) to the most needed layer for the optimal performance. The modified Halpin-Tsai model and the rule of mixture are carried out to predict the effective material properties of the GRC cylindrical panel, such as Young's modulus, Poisson's ratio and mass density. Nonlinear partial differential equations of motion are established within the framework of Hamilton principle in conjunction with first-order shear deformation theory (FSDT) and von Karman geometric nonlinearity. Navier approach is adopted to calculate natural frequencies of the GRC cylindrical panel. Then, considering the external excitation, Galerkin method is applied to realize the model reduction, which is expressed by the ordinary differential equations. Backward Differentiation Formula (BDF) is used to perform nonlinear transient responses of the system subjected to the pulse excitation (step load or triangular load). Finally, Runge-Kutta method is employed to carry out bifurcations and chaotic dynamics of the system subjected to the steady-state excitation. Results are presented in the form of natural frequencies and nonlinear responses to perform the parametric studies, such as distribution types and weight fractions of GPLs, geometry parameters and excitation parameters of the GRC cylindrical panel.
Abstract Increasing the economic attractiveness of plastic waste reusing/recycling is expected to contribute towards reducing their input in the environment. The use of plastic wastes as feedstock for the synthesis of added-value carbon materials has been studied in this context. However, there is a lack of a systematic review of the published works on this topic. Bearing this in mind, a systematic review was carried out in this study, covering the available literature on the conversion of plastic wastes into carbon materials. Clearly defined methodologies/criteria were accordingly established. 142 studies were selected for qualitative/overall analysis, including type/condition of plastic (pristine or waste), and type of carbon materials obtained. It was found that most of the studies report the utilization of plastic wastes (75%); and that the most representative materials obtained are carbon nanotubes (CNTs; 47.1% of the studies under evaluation), activated carbons (ACs; 22.2%) and 2D graphene-based materials (9.2%). Nevertheless, despite already being the third most significant group of carbon materials produced from plastic wastes, none of the 12 review articles available in the literature is fully devoted to the conversion of plastic wastes into 2D graphene-based materials. Therefore, the literature available on this topic was thoroughly reviewed for the first time. These studies report the synthesis of monolayer, few-layer and multi-layer graphene (including flash graphene) obtained through 4 main synthesis methodologies: (i) thermal decomposition of the plastics directly over a metal substrate; (ii) prior thermal decomposition of the plastics, with the resulting hydrocarbon gases released being fed to a chemical vapour deposition (CVD) system containing the metal substrate; (iii) thermal decomposition followed by ball milling and microwave sintering; and (iv) flash Joule heating (FJH).
The interaction of DNA nucleobases with monolayer GaSe has been studied with in DFT framework using vdW functional. We found that nucleobases are physisorbed on the GaSe monolayer. The order of binding energy per atom is C>T>G>A. The room temperature recovery time estimated to be maximum of 113.88 micro sec. for T+GaSe indicting reusability of the GaSe based devices. The modulation in the electronic structures of GaSe has been clearly captured within the simulated STM measurements. We also demonstrate quantum capacitance as a key parameter for sensing applications. Furthermore, in optical properties, electron energy loss (EEL) spectra show red shift in photon energy on nucleobase adsorption in UV region. In nutshell, GaSe monolayer exhibit anisotropic optical response in UV-region which can be highly beneficial for developing polarized optical sensors. Our results demonstrate that GaSe monolayer can be utilized to fabricate reusable DNA sequencing devices for biotechnology and medical science.
Abstract This chapter reviews the rheological properties of graphene polymer nanocomposite. Rheological properties discussed here mainly include viscosity, viscoelastic properties, and rheological percolation. The dispersion of graphene in the polymer matrix is an important factor that is to be considered not only because of its scientific importance but also for technical reasons. The extent of dispersion of graphene is observed to affect the flow or rheological characteristics of the polymer nanocomposites and hence the fundamental characteristics of the materials at the nanoscale are dependent on the quality of dispersion. This chapter also highlights the various other factors other than the dispersion of fillers, like fabrication techniques for polymer nanocomposites, polymer–filler interaction, and temperature which affect the rheological percolation of graphene polymer composite. Moreover, different models are reported here which are used to understand the structure-properties relationships of nanocomposites materials.
Abstract Theoretical studies reveal that the electronic and chemical properties of graphene can be significantly altered by chemical doping with a nitrogen atom. In the present work, a unique strategy has been applied for the manufacture of selective N-doped graphene (NG). A low cost, and facile one pot solvothermal approach has been adopted for the synthesis p-type nitrogen graphene. Moreover, the as-synthesized NG sheets exhibit a crossover from n-type to p-type behaviour. The presence of pyridinic-N in graphene planes is confirmed by high-resolution X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. The as-synthesized NG presents excellent sensing properties towards ammonia, and fast electron transfer kinetics for glucose oxidase. The higher sensing activity is ascribed to synergistic effect of nitrogen, and oxygen-containing functional groups. The resultant NG is proven to act as a metal-free catalyst with much better performance for ammonia and glucose sensing at room temperature. This study will provide a promising potential for the development of NG type sensors in the real world and environmental applications.
Abstract The area of graphene-based polymer composites has seen numerous advancements with the isolation of a single layer of graphene from a stock of bulk graphite. It consists of superior mechanical, electrical, and thermal. Graphene when combined with polymers results in composites within nano regime with improved characteristics such as gas permeability, better thermal response, mechanical strength and modulus, electrical conductivity etc. makes it a superior material of choice for use in the areas of food and electronic packaging. The food and electronic packaging markets are expected to grow at compounded annual growth rate of 7% and 18% respectively due to inflated volumes of production. The increased use of bioplastics in packaging is the trend going forward with issues regarding proper use and disposal of conventional packaging plastics after use. The increase in properties with a multifunctional effect makes it the material of choice in packaging. Also, the electrical conductivity characteristics such as EMI shielding, lead-free green soldering materials, etc. makes it suitable as a material for electronics packaging. The scope of work covered in the research for the use of graphene-polymer nanocomposites in packaging (food and electronics) is very vast. The authors have made an honest attempt toward covering both the important aspects and recent developments.
Using first-principles calculations, we report structural and electronic properties of CO, NO2 and NO molecular adsorption on β-In2Se3 in comparison to a previous study on α-phase. Analysis and comparison of adsorption energies and extent of charge transfer indicates β-In2Se3 to be selective in detecting gas molecules. We found NO molecules acting as charge donor whereas CO and NO2 molecules as charge acceptors, respectively, experiencing physisorption in all cases. Owing to enhanced adsorption, faster desorption and improved selectivity of the gas molecules discussed in detail, we conclude β-In2Se3 to be a superior gas sensing material ideal for chemoresistive-type gas sensing applications. 1 ar X iv :2 11 0. 00 86 7v 1 [ ph ys ic s. ch em -p h] 2 O ct 2 02 1
Abstract Two-dimensional (2D) monolayered magnesium triphosphides (MgP3) is identified as a new member of the 2D XP3 family. Interestingly, a strain less than 8% can induce the bandgap of the MgP3 monolayer changing in a large range from 0.32 to 1.35 eV. On the basis of the first-principles calculations, the geometrical structure of the newfound MgP3 monolayer is relaxed, and the dynamical/thermal stabilities are assured by carrying out calculations of phonon dispersion and ab initio molecular dynamics simulation, respectively. The HSE06 calculations give a direct bandgap of 1.18 eV and enhanced visible-light and UV optical absorptions for the MgP 3 monolayer with strain-free. The carrier mobility is higher than those of the several previously reported XP 3 monolayers and demonstrates a significant difference between the electron and the hole carrier mobilities. Strain engineering can significantly affect both the bandgap and optical absorption. These findings indicate that the MgP3 monolayer could have potential applications of optoelectronic, photovoltaic , and photocatalytic materials or devices.
Abstract The nodal–line structure provides higher carrier mobility, massless and special features in which the conduction band and the valence band cross at the Fermi level. The anisotropic nodal–line structure has the advantage of anisotropic Fermi velocity for novel 2D quantum device. Here we report two binary monolayers with anisotropic nodal–line based on first-principles calculation. Fully optimized ScX (X = P, As) structure can still keep good structural integrity at high temperature of 1000 K in ab initio molecular dynamics simulation. Besides, we analyze structural symmetry and wave function to illustrate the existence of nodal–line, the Young’s modulus and Poisson’s ratio of ScX show nice anisotropy. The Fermi velocities of ScX are larger than 105 m/s, which are the same order of magnitude as graphene. This work provides novel candidates of nodal–line semimetals for massless and stable quantum devices.
Abstract The mid-infrared spectral range is critical for bio-sensing and gas detection. Existing methods for designing wavelength-selective absorbers involve two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) nanofabrication, which is exceedingly expensive, rendering these methods impracticable. The application of a plane multilayer configuration using Fabry–Perot (FP) resonance can help overcome these drawbacks. This paper presents the numerical analysis of an innovative narrowband absorber with a VO2-graphene-based Fabry–Perot (VGFP) multilayer structure using thermally and electrically tunable methods to regulate light absorption in the mid-infrared region. The maximum thermal modulation of spectral absorbance ranges from 0.068 to 0.999. The FP resonance is the primary cause of the strong light absorption and is explained in detail using the multiple reflection interference principle and the impedance transformation method. The absorption ratio of each layer was obtained from the analysis of its electric field and energy. The spectral selectivity of the absorber was varied by changing the dimensions of each layer of the absorber. Additionally, the effect of the incidence angle and gate voltage on the spectral absorbance of the multilayer structures was analyzed. Finally, the sensing performance of the VGFP multilayer structure was investigated. The findings of this study can be referred to for designing tunable high-performance optoelectronic devices in the future.
Abstract Mechanical properties of polymer and polymer-based composite materials are of great interest because of their application point of view, especially in structural and load-bearing fields. In this chapter, we focus on the mechanical properties of polymer-based graphene nanocomposites. Herein, important mechanical properties like tensile, compression, dynamic mechanical, and flexural properties of polymer/graphene nanocomposites are discussed. The reported tensile properties are tensile strength, tensile stiffness, tensile toughness, and tensile fatigue. Graphene oxide (GO), reduced GO, and other functionalized graphene are mostly used as reinforcing fillers within the polymer matrices. The reports suggest that the mechanical properties of polymers have been improved due to the incorporation of graphene within the polymer matrices. However, excess loading of graphene into polymer matrices leads to the deterioration of mechanical strength. It was found that the mechanical properties are dependent on the nature of polymer, loading of graphene, types of graphene, and dispersion of graphene within the polymer matrices.
Abstract It is possible to exploit graphene's superior mechanical and thermal properties at the bulk level by reinforcing it in the metal matrix via advanced manufacturing processes. In the present study, the influence of graphene reinforcement on the coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) and thermal conductivity (TC) of 3D printed graphene/AlSi10Mg composite was evaluated in the temperature range of 25 °C to 500 °C. The composite samples were prepared by conducting ball-milling of graphene (0.1 and 0.2 wt%)-AlSi10Mg powder followed by powder bed fusion (PBF) process. Relative densities of the prepared samples were evaluated by Archimedes' method. A relative density of 99.1% was achieved for 0.1 wt% graphene/AlSi10Mg composite and unreinforced samples, whereas 98.4% was obtained for 0.2 wt% graphene/AlSi10Mg composite sample. Uniform dispersion of graphene in the matrix was achieved through micron-scale melt processing during PBF, which was ensured using Raman spectroscopy. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy results suggested that graphene is not reacting with the matrix even after laser fusion. The atom probe tomography results further demonstrated the stability of graphene in the matrix. Stable graphene platelets inside the AlSi10Mg matrix were responsible for ~10% reduction in the CTE of the composite owing to the negative CTE of graphene. A slight increment in thermal diffusivity was observed due to a smoother phonon transition at the graphene matrix interface.
Abstract Interfacial thermal transport property between graphene and semiconductor is an important factor affecting heat dissipation of graphene based semiconductor devices. Here, we investigate thermal transport across graphene/Si and graphene/SiC interfaces using reverse non-equilibrium molecular dynamics simulations, and phonon vibrational density of states are calculated to reveal the mechanism of enhancement of interfacial thermal conductance. Results show that for van der Waals bonded interfaces, the interfacial thermal conductance between graphene and Si is obviously higher, while for covalently bonded interfaces, the interfacial thermal conductance between graphene and SiC is higher. Different to the graphene/SiC interface, interfacial thermal conductances of graphene/Si interfaces can benefit from the increasing temperature, which is because the phonon matching between graphene and Si as well as the interfacial phonon inelastic scattering are improved under higher temperatures. The results are excepted to help promote the understanding of interfacial thermal transport between graphene and semiconductors and provide theoretical basis for the design and modification of related interfaces in graphene based semiconductor devices.
For high efficiency thermoelectric power conversion not only improvement of materials properties but also prediction and synthesis of new thermoelectric materials is needed. Here we have carried out a systematic investigation on thermoelectric performance of newly predicted two dimensional (2D) semiconducting SiS2 and SiSe2 monolayers of group IVA-VIA family using density functional theory (DFT) and Boltzmann transport equation (BTE). Our computed values of lattice thermal conductivity (kph) are ultralow which result very high thermoelectric figure of merit (ZT) value of 0.78 (0.80) at 500K in SiS2 (SiSe2) monolayer. The ultralow values of kph are attributed to phonon-phonon coupling of acoustic and low frequency optical branches which leads to larger scattering, low group velocity, smaller mean free path and shorter lifetime of phonons. It is also found from our investigation that p-type doping is more effective than n-type doping to get optimal power factor (PF) and ZT. Our theoretical investigation suggests that newly predicted semiconducting SiS2 and SiSe2 monolayers can be very promising thermoelectric materials for fabrication of high efficiency thermoelectric power generator to convert wastage heat into electricity.
Abstract In recent years, graphene has been subjected to intense scientific research interests owing to the remarkable properties of this class of materials. An appropriate loading of this youngest 2-D or 3-D honeycomb structured carbon based allotropic nanoscale material in the host polymer can considerably advance the physical, chemical, structural, mechanical, and electrical features of polymeric materials. Graphene filled polymer nanocomposites are attractive material as a functional component in solar energy devices and fuel cells. Graphene/polymer nanocomposites are noted to beneficial in absorption of photon, charge carrier transportation, and separation of charges when utilized as photoanode or counter electrode material in solar energy devices. In fact, the use of graphene/polymer nanocomposites particularly provides prolonged lifetime of fuel cells and solar energy related devices along with high productivity and liberty of repeatability. The remarkably high physical and chemical features of graphene/polymer nanocomposites are highly valued in fuel cell applications for the boosting of conduction of proton. This chapter will chiefly focus on the remarkable applications and potential use of graphene/polymer nanocomposites in solar energy and fuel cells. It will mainly be comprised of five sections: Section 6.1 will discuss a comprehensive introduction of graphene along with its synthesis techniques, its remarkable features, and major factors contributing in the enhancement of its properties. Section 6.2 will illustrate different types of graphene/polymer nanocomposites along with their commercially and economically acceptable fabrication methods and performance effecting parameters. The potential use of these nanocomposites in fuel cell and solar energy applications will be highlighted in Section 6.3 and 6.4, respectively. Lastly, in Section 6.5, the commercialization and property advancement challenges and future of graphene/polymer nanocomposites will be discussed.
Abstract Since discovery of graphene in 2004, 2D nanomaterials like transition metal dichalcogenide, monoelemental phosphorene, borophene, and transition metal carbides have gained much interest due to their high surface area and excellent mechanical and electronic properties. Attached functional groups on the surface of 2D materials have shown good dispersibility and biocompatibility. These 2D nanomaterials can be synthesized using both top-down and bottom up methods. In this chapter, we briefly discussed various synthesis approaches and their cancer applications.
Abstract A novel type of two-dimensional (2D) alloy Co2Ti2Sn2 with intrinsic ferromagnetism have been predicted using first-principles calculations. The results show that Co 2Ti2Sn2 monolayer exhibits a considerably large magnetic anisotropic energy (MAE) of 533 μeV per Co2Ti2Sn2 formula and the MAE can be tuned by carrier doping. For the electron doping, the MAE increases monotonically and significantly enhances ~60% up to 866 μeV, while for the hole doping, MAE decreases from positive to negative at the critical point of - 4 × 1014 cm−2 , corresponding to the change of easy magnetization direction from out-of-plane to in-plane. In addition, Monte Carlo simulations based on classical Heisenberg model estimate a high Curie temperature of approximate 463 K. Besides, we show that the Co 2Ti2Sn2 monolayer possesses good mechanical flexibility and can withstand a strain ranging from −32% to 22% and −15%–10% under uniaxial and biaxial direction, respectively. With the uniaxial stretching strain up to 12.4%, a magnetic phase transition will occur, during which the magnetic moment jumps to zero accompanied by energy jumping. Similar phenomenon is also observed at −6.5% and −8.8% under biaxial and uniaxial compression, respectively. These explored controllable magnetic properties , electronic properties, superior mechanical flexibility and the high Curie temperature render the 2D Co 2Ti2Sn2 monolayer a promising candidate for applications in magnetic logic device and nanospintronic applications.
Abstract Graphene is one of the most versatile conducting filler particles being used in the polymer matrix composites field. Recent patents in the polymer-graphene nanocomposites field are discussed in this chapter. Being a conducting filler, the majority of the graphene containing nanocomposites mainly finds application where electrical or thermal conductivity is utilized. Another significant characteristic of graphene is their exceptionally high mechanical properties which makes its composites useful where high mechanical properties are expected. A large number of such patents in the graphene-polymer nanocomposites field are commercialized and being applied in numerous fields that affect daily life, such as electrical/electronics, automobile, aerospace, solar cells, sensors, and packaging films.
Abstract In this paper, a dynamically switchable dual-band absorber based on electromagnetically induced reflection (EIR) in metal-graphene hybrid metamaterial is proposed. The unit cell of metamaterial absorber has three layers. The top layer consists of two split-ring resonators (SRRs) and two orthogonal cut-wires (CWs) with different lengths. Due to the low reflection dips in EIR structure and good absorption of graphene, two absorption bands accompanied with more than 90% absorptions are obtained under y-polarized and x-polarized incident waves, respectively. The power loss densities at the absorption points clearly reveal the absorption positions of the metamaterial absorber. In addition, the electric field, magnetic field and surface current distributions explain the reason of high absorption. According to the surface currents at four resonant points, we draw the schematic diagrams of multipole moments, which are confirmed by multipole scattering theory. The tunable absorption performance of metamaterial absorber can be observed by tuning the Fermi level of graphene. The metamaterial absorber exhibits excellent wide polarization angle behavior and shows great prospects in multi-band metamaterial absorber under oblique incidence. The proposed metamaterial absorber expands the development of metamaterial and shows great potential for multifunctional metamaterial absorber.
Abstract Herein electrolytic reduction of CO2 on transition metal decorated graphene quantum dot (M@GQD) has been investigated by using first-principles calculations. Comparative study of geometrical properties and charge distribution of CO 2 adsorbed M@GQD revealed that while GQD is unable to activate CO2, the transition metal decorated sites of M@GQD are available for CO2 adsorption, activation and dissociation. Charge distribution and molecular orbital analysis indicate that metal centre on GQD act as a Lewis base and the overall activation process is guided by the transfer of electron density from the corresponding metal centre to the π* orbital of CO 2. The extent of CO2 activation is also analysed by the projected density of states (PDOS) which demonstrates that among the transition metal series Ti sites are available for CO2 activation and dissociation while activation does not occur involving Cu and Zn, due to their poor adsorption energy and lowest coupling of valence band state with the GQD. Overall transition metal decorated GQD opens up unlimited possibilities for designing new and highly selective and efficient catalysts for electrolytic CO2 reduction.
Abstract Polymer/graphene composites have attained great importance in the area of materials due to the combination of excellent properties of graphene as well as polymers. The structure and related characteristics of graphene and polymers together impart great influence in determining the final properties of polymer/graphene composites. Therefore, it is very essential to understand the structure-property relationship that helps tailor desired properties of composites as per the final application. This chapter deals with the basics of important properties of graphene and polymer/graphene composites. Multiple factors based on the structure of graphene, its fabrication process, functionalities of graphene, polymer chemical and physical structure, and its behavior with each other are thoroughly discussed. Further, the effect of these factors on the final properties of composite is thoroughly explained citing examples from literature.
Abstract Magneto-band structures of armchair and zigzag germanene nanoribbons (AGeNR and ZGeNR) are calculated by the p z -orbital tight-binding model including the spin–orbit coupling (SOC). Magnetic field induces spin splitting leading to a change in energy dispersion and band-gap. Band-gap decreases with increasing magnetic field for AGeNRs, whereas it increases for ZGeNRs. Low-frequency plasmon is further studied within the random-phase-approximation. At zero field and temperature, plasmon emerges just in small-gapped AGeNRs but is weakened due to Landau damping for sufficiently small or large transferred momentum. With increasing magnetic field, frequency and peak height of plasmon are reduced, showing strongly field-dependent dispersion relations. On the contrary, plasmon frequency of large-gapped AGeNRs rises with increasing magnetic field. Moreover, magneto-plasmons of large-gapped AGeNRs are more sensitive to a change in temperature than small-gapped ones. Regarding ZGeNRs, magnetic field cannot induce low-frequency plasmon at zero temperature. As temperature increases, plasmon frequency increases and dispersion relation exists within a wider range of momentum. While magnetic field increases, changes in energy dispersion and band-gap reduce plasmon frequency. Magneto-plasmons of GeNRs at various temperatures, due to the SOC, exhibit rich features which are also profoundly related to geometric structures.
Abstract Due to the oxygen–containing functional groups covering the graphene oxide surface, multilayer graphene oxide has different properties. The understanding of its atomic structure and layer stacking behavior at low temperature is far from complete. This work systematically revealed how the oxygen-containing groups density, type and temperature affect the spacing of multilayer GO layers through the ReaxFF molecular dynamics simulation method. We found that the density of oxygen-containing groups is the main variable that controls the distribution of surface oxidation areas and the degree of distortion of the graphene sheets. With the increase of C/O ratio, the distribution of oxygen-containing functional groups tends to aggregate, and the deformation of graphite flakes becomes more serious. The layer spacing of multilayer GO is affected by temperature. The types of released small molecules, the degree of pyrolysis of the graphene skeleton and the interlayer spacing are all affected by OH/O ratio. With more hydroxyl groups, it is easier to release long O-H chains, and the graphene skeleton is less likely to be pyrolyzed. This in–depth investigation has helped develop a fundamental understanding of the atomic structure of graphene oxide and has laid basic foundations for an effective control of graphene layer distance and properties.
Abstract The structure and electronic properties of two-dimensional vertical van der Waals arsenene/SnS2 heterostructure are investigated based on the first-principles calculations. The results show that the arsenene/SnS2 bilayer forms a type-II heterostructure with the indirect band gap of 0.870 eV, which is conducive to separating the photogenerated electron-hole pairs. Importantly, the electronic properties of the arsenene/SnS2 heterostructure can be effectively adjusted by applying an external electric field and biaxial strain. Both compressive and tensile strains can decrease the band gap of the arsenene/SnS2 heterostructure, while compressive strain reduces the band gap faster, and the band alignment will have a transition from type-II to type-I when the tensile strain increases to 8%. The band gap of the arsenene/SnS2 heterostructure changes linearly under the external electric field from -1.0 to 1.0 V/A, while the type-II property is robust in the arsenene/SnS2 heterostructure, not changed by the electric field we consider. Compared to the isolated arsenene and SnS2 monolayers, the arsenene/SnS2 heterostructure has the enhanced optical abaorption from visible to ultraviolet region, especially possessing the absorption peak up to 35.1% in the ultraviolet. Interestingly, there exhibits red shift under tensile strain or negative electric field, and blue shift under compressive strain or positive electric field. Our proposed arsenene/SnS2 heterostructure has great potential applications in electronic and optoelectronic devices.
Abstract The existence of a notch in a single-atom-thick graphene nanoribbon brings about significant nonlinearity in deformation within the extremely confined stress concentration field of only a few nanometers near the notch root. However, whether the continuum-based mechanics theory is still valid for fracture due to such strongly-nonlinear and extremely small stress concentration is questionable. Here, we demonstrate that stress-based criterion with linear-media assumption breaks down at a critical size of Λ S C = 19.7 n m , and moreover the one based on nonlinear-media assumption also fails to describe the nonlinear brittle fracture in a notched graphene nanoribbon below a lower dimensional limit of Λ NL C = 2.4 n m because of the atomic discreteness. By fully considering the nonlinearity and atomic discreteness, an atomic energy release rate (ERR) theory is proposed, and it is found that the atomic ERR criterion works well for a notch in nonlinear graphene nanoribbon even below the lower limit of continuum-based mechanics. It finally brings about an ultimate unification in describing nonlinear brittle fracture in both notched and cracked systems. These results demonstrate that the proposed atomic ERR criterion is not only size-independent but also shape-independent for all scales.
Abstract Graphene has shown many attractive properties while the difficulties in the fabrication of high-quality graphene have been a significant bottleneck in its applications. Here we report the discovery of high-quality graphene obtained from the solidified equiatomic CrFeCoNiC high-entropy alloy. Graphite flakes can be peeled off from the surface of the as-cast CrFeCoNiC high-entropy alloy, and single or multilayer graphene can be further exfoliated. The mechanical properties of the graphene are investigated by an atomic force microscope, and the result confirms the discovery of high-quality graphene. The transmission electron microscopy and Raman spectroscopy are applied to further characterize the quality of the graphene and show that the graphene has high-quality with few defects, comparable to the graphene obtained from highly oriented pyrolytic graphite. The thermodynamic calculation is applied to investigate the solidification process of the high-entropy alloy and reveals the mechanism of the formation of graphite on the surface.
Abstract Corrosion of structural metals is a universal problem that causes economic and environmental damage every year due to the gradual failure of conventional protective coatings over time. In the past, graphene has emerged as a promising anticorrosive material owing to its unique properties such as chemical inertness, impermeability, and high conductivity, although scalability is still a big issue. This chapter outlines the utility and recent advances in graphene and graphene-derived materials containing polymer-based anticorrosive coatings. Additionally, an overview of pure graphene corrosion protective coating is also given. The potential applications of various polymer-graphene composites in the field of metal corrosion protection and their viability and challenges in near-future applications are also discussed.
Abstract In this work, we study the properties of electronic transport in molecular junctions formed by bipyridine isomers as central region coupled at electrodes of carbyne wires. Through calculations of first principles , based on Density Functional Theory (DFT), combined with Non-Equilibrium Green’s Functions (NEGF), we obtain important properties such as electric current , differential conductance, transmission, and eigenchannels. The results showed that the presence of nitrogen atoms in the molecule–electrode interface strongly affects the coupling of the junction, providing better electronic conduction; this is corroborated by the transmission eigenchannels. The transport properties analyzed revealed that in bipyridine bridges, devices with carbyne electrodes, presented better performance when compared to other works that used metallic electrodes (Au, Ag, and Cu) or graphene nanoribbons electrodes. The devices proposed showed a Field Effect Transistor (FET) behavior when are formed by symmetric isomers, whereas for asymmetric systems we obtained characteristics of Molecular Diode (MD).
Abstract Two dimensional graphene-based van der Waals heterostructures have attracted the interest of various researchers due to their unique properties. Based on the contact between metal electrodes and two dimensional materials has a substantial impact on the performance of electronic devices. The interfacial performance and Schottky contact performance with graphene and hexagonal boron phosphide (h-BP) vdW heterostructures are investigated using density functional theory calculations. We investigated eight energy-stable stacking configurations of multilayer graphene and h-BP vdW heterostructures. The different configurations of the h-BP/graphene vdW heterostructures all exhibit n-type Schottky contacts. The band structure of the h-BP in the heterostructures can be modulated under the influence of an external electric field (E field ), thus effectively manipulating the Schottky barrier height (SBH). The n-type SBH increases with the increasing positive E field and eventually the contact transforms into an Ohmic contact, while the Schottky contact transition from n-type to p-type occurs under the negative Efield. The data demonstrate that modulating the electronic properties of hexagonal boron phosphide/graphere (h-BP/Gr) vdW heterostructures with Efield is a promising approach, which can control the transition from Schottky to Ohmic contacts. The results can provide theoretical support for the design of controlled Schottky nanoelectronic devices.
Abstract Hydrogen production from water splitting is a clean and unlimited energy source that can counter the uprising energy demands and suppress the consumption of fossil fuels. The role of the catalyst is crucial for efficient, sustainable, and cost-effective hydrogen production. Several semiconductor-based photocatalysts or electrocatalysts have been used for these purposes. Specifically, single layer sp2 hybridized graphene-based composite catalyst draws the attention owing to their large specific surface area and excellent mobility of the charge carrier at room temperature. At the same time, agglomeration (due to the strong π-π stacking interaction) and poor dispersion of graphene in the catalytic solution reduces the accessible surface area. Therefore, a new search has begun with conductive polymers to address these issues. Surface modification of graphene with the conductive polymer can prevent the restacking and improve the dispersion in solution. This chapter provides a comprehensive idea about the ongoing development and progress on polymer-graphene composite in hydrogen production. In this chapter, we have discussed the basic water splitting techniques, synthesis and property of different polymer-graphene-based photocatalysts and electrocatalysts. Finally, this chapter is concluded with remarks about the remaining challenges and future perspective in this area.
Abstract Despite the noteworthy exertions aimed at the synthesis of numerous novel new polymers, the performance properties of such polymers when utilized in real-life applications can be well-thought-out to be average in many instances; thereby limiting their use in challenging areas of material science and engineering such as biomedical niche. The preparation of graphene along with the assessment of its excellent properties including excellent mechanical properties, extraordinary thermal conductivity, along with high electronic transport, have drawn the attention of industrial and academic researchers and consequently unwrapped a good outlook for the inclusion of graphene as a nano reinforcing fillers nanomaterial in polymer matrices to formulate multifunctional nanocomposites for advance application. The all-embracing research studies along with application on graphene and its polymer matrix-based composites targeted at applications in the biomedical field is the aim of this chapter. A summary of the polymer matrices utilized and the fabrication methods for graphene composites is also reported. To end with, the applications of graphene-polymer-based composites in the biomedical field such as wound healing, drug delivery, and sensors, etc. are conversed.
Abstract The high reaction tendency between graphene and titanium (Ti) matrix during fabrication of graphene/Ti composites aggravates the structural integrity of graphene and limits its outstanding strengthening potential. In order to solve this problem, in this study, few-layered graphene (FLG) decorated with SiC nanoparticles (SiCp@FLG) was synthesized to reinforce Ti-6Al-4V (Ti64) alloy via a powder metallurgy route. Microstructure and Vickers hardness of the developed SiCp@FLG/Ti64 composites were studied systematically. Results showed that the SiCp decoration changed the morphology of FLG/Ti interface from continuous TiC reaction layer to discontinuous TiC nanoparticles during hot-press sintering. This discontinuous interface not only kept the integrity of FLG by suppressing its reaction with Ti matrix but also led to direct bonding between FLG and Ti. This designing strategy of protecting the reinforcement by secondary particle decoration can be potentially applied to the development of high-performance metal matrix composites.
Abstract Recently, two-dimensional graphitic carbon nitrides have emerged as potential electrocatalysts for CO2 electroreduction (CO2ER). Herein, a series of transition metal (M=Mn-Cu, Ru-Ag) doped C3N monolayer (M-C3N) as a novel CO2ER catalyst has been investigated by employing the density functional method. By a careful computational screening, Mn-C3N is identified as the best catalyst for CO2ER, due to its high catalytic activity and high selectivity. HCOOH is the final product with a low overpotential of 0.04 V and a low kinetic energy barrier of 0.75 eV. The hydrogen evolution is also suppressed on Mn-C3N surface. Therefore, the CO2ER activity could be tuned by adjusting the metal atom in the C3N monolayer, which may shed new light on designing novel C3N-based CO2ER catalyst.
The growth of large areas of two-dimensional homogeneous graphene depends on the bond between the metal film, which acts as a catalyst, and the substrate material. The structural differences between the metal and the various anisotropic crystals make this growth method a challenge for the feasibility of growing graphene on optical crystals. In this paper, the evolution of the adsorption energy between nickel (Ni) films and Lithium Niobate (LiNbO3, LN) crystals is modelled under different thermal treatment environments by constructing a physical model of the temperature dependence of the adsorption energy between the two materials. With the aid of a series of simulated full annealing processes, the changes in adsorption energy at different temperatures were calculated. The results show that there are two “temperature windows” with target annealing temperatures of 700–800 K and 950–1050 K that prove to have high adsorption energies. This is of great guiding and practical significance for the direct transfer-free synthesis of graphene on LiNbO3 substrates.
Doped carbon-based materials have attracted considerable attentions due to their extraordinary optical, thermal, and electronic properties. Herein, we demonstrate a facile and universal approach, which involves the hydrothermal treatment of citric acid and phosphonitrilic chloride trimer (Cl6N3P3), for the production of nitrogen and phosphorus co-doped graphene quantum dots (N, P-GQDs). The obtained N, P-GQDs with a mean size of about 3.4 nm exhibit bright yellow fluorescence, good-solubility, and attractive optical stability. Although the quantum yield as high as 34.8% has been proved in our synthesized N, P-GQDs, the fluorescence can be also fleetly and selectively quenched by Fe3+ ions. Therefore, high-performance Fe3+ sensors are fabricated with N, P-GQDs, with an ultra-sensitive detection limit of 146 nM. Furthermore, high ionic strength, mild acids, and alkaline are demonstrated to have a small impact on the fluorescence intensity of the N, P-GQDs. Finally, the as-synthesized N, P-GQDs, with bright luminescence and excellent biocompatibility, are applied for bioimaging, e.g., fibroblast cells.
Abstract From a micro view, the graphene composite exhibits the quantum dynamical behaviors in experiments. This paper aims to show the theoretical analysis on the quantum dynamics of Al-doped graphene composite sheet impacted by hydrogen using force analysis technique. As the main novelty of this study, the generalized Casimir function and power are proposed to analytically explore the key factors governing the quantum dynamics and energy exchange of Al-doped graphene composite sheet. The quantum system of Al-doped graphene composite sheet is converted into a Kolmogorov-like system, owning four types of force: inertial, internal, dissipative and external force. Numerical examples show the rich quantum dynamical phenomenon with different key parameters. It is found that the hydrogen excitation and initial conditions can effectively influence the quantum dynamical behaviors. Both theoretical predictions and numerical results attest to the quantum dynamics of the Al-doped graphene composite sheet under the impact from hydrogen atoms.
To develop next-generation electronic devices, novel semiconductive materials are urgently required. The transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) hold the promise of next generation of semiconductor materials for emerging electronic applications. As a member of the group-10 TMDs, PdS2 has a notable layer-number-dependent band structure and tremendously high carrier mobility at room temperature. Here, we demonstrate the experimental realization of centimeter-scale synthesis of the few-layer PdS2 by the combination of physical vapor deposition (PVD) and chemical vapor deposition (CVD) methods. For the first time, the optical anisotropic properties of the few-layer PdS2 were investigated through angle-resolved polarized Raman spectroscopy. Also, the evolution of Raman spectra was studied depending on the temperature in the range of 12-300 K. To further understand the electronic properties of the few-layer PdS2, the field-effect transistor (FET) devices were fabricated and investigated. The electronic measurements of such FET devices reveal that the PdS2 materials exhibit a tunable ambipolar transport mechanism with field-effect mobility of up to ∼388 cm2 V-1 s-1 and the on/off ratio of ∼800, which were not reported before in the literature. To well understand the experimental results, the electronic structure of PdS2 was determined using density functional theory (DFT) calculations. These excellent physical properties are very helpful in developing high-performance opto-electronic applications.
Abstract By means of Monte Carlo simulation, we have explored the magnetic and thermodynamic behaviors of the diluted ferromagnetic spin-3/2 Ising nano-graphene monolayer under the longitudinal magnetic field. The effects of the number of lattice sites, magnetic atom concentration, crystal field and external longitudinal magnetic field on the magnetic phase transition and hysteresis behaviors of the present system have been discussed. The characteristic curves of magnetization, magnetic susceptibility, internal energy and the specific heat as a function of temperature have been displayed specifically. We have presented the phase diagrams for various physical parameters. It is found that the area, coercivity and remanence of the hysteresis loops are strongly dependent on those selected parameters.
In this paper, a possible way to achieve lasing from the THz to the extreme UV domain due to stimulated scattering of graphene plasmons (GPs) on free electrons is considered. The analytical-quantitative description of the proposed free electron laser scheme is based on a self-consistent set of Maxwell–Vlasov equations. We study the downconversion as well as the upconversion. It is shown that the coherent downconversion of infrared radiation to THz can be achieved using a source of very non-relativistic electrons at the resonant coupling with the GPs. Due to the strongly confined GPs, the upconversion of mid-infrared to extreme UV radiation can be achieved with mildly relativistic electron beams. The latter is a promising mechanism for a tabletop short-wavelength free-electron nanolaser.
Abstract Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) has become an ultrasensitive technique in trace molecule detection through its unique vibrational fingerprint. However, development of a SERS platform with large enhancement factor, superior stability, and excellent reproducibility is still a grand challenge for practical applications. Recently, two-dimensional (2D) materials play an intriguing role for SERS through the use of their unique structures and properties. This review summarizes the recent progress of 2D materials-based SERS that could be complements to plasmonic SERS substrates. Based on the symmetry of the lattice structure, isotropic and anisotropic 2D materials for SERS are introduced. Particularly, various methods to improve the SERS performance are described. The sensitivity, limit of detection, and stability are discussed for 2D materials-based heterostructures as SERS platforms, including van der Waals and hybrid heterostructures. Furthermore, the applications of 2D materials-based SERS substrates in niche areas, including local strain probing, remote/in-situ chemical analysis, and fine structure characterization are summarized.
With the development of 5G, Internet of Things, and smart home technologies, miniaturized and compact multi-antenna systems and multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) antenna arrays have attracted increasing attention. Reducing the coupling between antenna elements is essential to improving the performance of such MIMO antenna system. In this work, we proposed a graphene-assembled, as an alternative material rather than metal, film-based MIMO antenna array with high isolation for 5G application. The isolation of the antenna element is improved by a graphene assembly film (GAF) frequency selective surface and isolation strip. It is shown that the GAF antenna element operated at 3.5 GHz has the realized gain of 2.87 dBi. The addition of the decoupling structure improves the isolation of the MIMO antenna array to more than 10 dB and corrects the antenna radiation pattern and operating frequency. The isolation between antenna elements with an interval of 0.4λ is above 25 dB. All experimental results show that the GAF antenna and decoupling structure are efficient devices for 5G mobile communication.
Free-standing graphene has a three-dimensional (3D) structure, called a ripple, rather than a perfect two-dimensional (2D) crystal. Since theoretical calculations suggest that a ripple strongly influences various fundamental physicochemical properties of graphene, it is important to clarify the ripple structure quantitatively in experiments. This paper proposes a new method of measuring the 3D atomic structure of a ripple by using aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The method utilizes the fact that the 2D contrast of a TEM image is sensitive to the height of a six-membered ring. The proposed method is experimentally applied to a monolayer graphene, and the 3D atomic arrangements of consecutively acquired TEM images are reconstructed. In that experiment, the specimen is found to be moving upward. Furthermore, the atomic arrangement can be approximated as a composite of two structures consisting of a 3D ripple and a 2D plane. The ripple is represented as a superposition of sinusoidal waves, with their wave vectors coinciding with the specific direction of the six-membered ring. The time dependences of the height and lateral size of the ripple are also measured.
Van der Waals heterostructures composed of two-dimensional materials offer an unprecedented control over their properties and have attracted tremendous research interest in various optoelectronic applications. Here, we study the photoinduced charge transfer in graphene/WS2 heterostructure by time-dependent density functional theory molecular dynamics. Our results show that holes transfer from graphene to WS2 two times faster than electrons, and the occurrence of interlayer charge transfer is found correlated with vibrational modes of graphene and WS2. It is further demonstrated that the carrier dynamics can be efficiently modulated by external electric fields. Detailed analysis confirms that the carrier transfer rate at heterointerface is governed by the coupling between donor and acceptor states, which is the result of the competition between interlayer and intralayer relaxation processes. Our study provides insights into the understanding of ultrafast interlayer charge transfer processes in heterostructures and broadens their future applications in photovoltaic devices.
Two-dimensional materials are known to possess emergent properties that are not found in their bulk counterparts. Recent experiments have shown a $\sqrt7 \times \sqrt3$ charge density wave (CDW) in monolayer 1T-VSe2, in contrast to the $4\times 4\times 3$ phase in bulk. In this work, via first-principles calculations, we show that multiple CDW phases compete in monolayer VSe2, and the ground state of which can be tuned by charge doping and in-plane biaxial strain. With doping, phase transitions occur from the $\sqrt7 \times \sqrt3$ CDW of the pristine VSe2 to a $3 \times \sqrt3$ and to a $4\times 4$ phase, which is a projection from the bulk counterpart, at critical doping concentrations of around 0.2 hole per formula unit and 0.25 electron per formula unit, respectively. The $4\times 4$ CDW phase can also be stabilized under compressive strain. The phase transitions can be well understood by Fermi surface nesting. These results make VSe2 an appealing material for electronic devices based on controllable CDW phase transitions.
In the past decade, graphene has been widely researched to improve or overcome the performance of conventional radio-frequency (RF) nanodevices and circuits. In recent years, novel RF bio and gas sensors based on graphene and its derivatives, graphene oxide (GO) and reduced graphene oxide (rGO), have emerged as new RF sensing platforms using a wireless remote system. Although the sensing schemes are still immature, this review focuses on the recent trends and advances of graphene and GO (rGO)-based RF bio and gas sensors for a real-time and continuous wireless health care system.
Linear carbon-based materials such as polyyne and cumulene oligomers provide a versatile platform for nano-physics and engineering. Direct gap quasi-1D polyyne structures are promising for the observation of strong and unusual excitonic effects arising due to the two-dimensional quantum confinement. Recently, we reported on the observation of sharp exciton peaks in low temperature photoluminescence spectra of polyyne chains (Kutrovskaya S et al 2020 Nano Lett. 20 6502–9). Here, we analyze the time-resolved optical response of this system. We extend the non-local dielectric response theory to predict the exciton radiative lifetime dependence on the band-gap value and on the length of the chain. A good agreement between the experiment and the theory is achieved. Video Abstract: Exciton radiative lifetime in a monoatomic carbon chain
Abstract A simplistic and economical process was employed for the oxidation of graphite nanoplatelets (GNPs) using concentrated HNO3, followed by their surface modification by amine functionalization via silanization with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES). The impact of the oxidation time of the GNPs (varied from 12 h to 72 h) and their surface functionalization was studied with respect to the change in thermo-mechanical and mechanical properties of the GNPs/epoxy nanocomposites. The degree of oxidation and functionalization of the GNPs was characterized using field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM), Raman spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), and thermo-gravimetric analysis (TGA). The optimized oxidation time (60 h) and surface functionalization of the GNPs resulted in the significant improvement in the storage modulus (~176%), glass transition temperature (Tg) (~15 °C), tensile strength (~98.71%) and tensile modulus (~142.66%) of the GNPs/epoxy nanocomposites as compared the to neat epoxy (NE) system. Such tremendous enhancement in the material properties by a facile and economical approach can exhibit an inordinate potential to replace the costly multistep oxidation methods of fabrication of graphene/epoxy nanocomposites at industrial scale.
The existence of a new two dimensional CN2 structure was predicted using ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) and density-functional theory calculations. It consists of tetragonal and hexagonal rings with C-N and N-N bonds arranged in a buckling plane, isostructural to the tetrahex-carbon allotrope. It is thermodynamically and kinetically stable suggested by its phonon spectrum and AIMD. This nanosheet has a high concentration of N and contains N-N single bonds with an energy density of 6.3 kJ g-1, indicating its potential applications as a high energy density material. It possesses exotic mechanical properties with a negative Poisson's ratio and an anisotropic Young's modulus. The modulus in the zigzag direction is predicted to be 340 N m-1, stiffer than those of h-BN and penta-CN2 sheets and comparable to that of graphene. Its ideal strength of 28.8 N m-1 outperforms that of penta-graphene. The material maintains phonon stability upon the application of uniaxial strain up to 10% (13%) in the zigzag (armchair) direction or biaxial strain up to 5%. It possesses a wide indirect HSE band gap of 4.57 eV, which is tunable between 3.37-4.57 eV through strain. Double-layered structures are also explored. Such unique properties may facilitate its potential applications as a high energy density material and in nanomechanics and electronics.
The efficient electromagnetic absorber is highly demanded in device applications. A big challenge is to design the absorber of very thin thickness and broad bandwidth, which is even more difficult at terahertz regime. In this article, we propose and numerically (finite element method, FEM) demonstrate a high-performance broadband absorber with near-perfect absorption over terahertz band based on multilayer graphene squares. The absorber consists of four graphene layers in which the width of the square is gradually increased, and a bottom gold layer separated by a dielectric spacer. The proposed structure can achieve above 90% wave absorption for the frequencies from 1.45 THz to 4.35 THz, with a bandwidth of 2.9 THz and the bandwidth fraction of 100%. Because of symmetry of the structure, this terahertz absorber is polarization insensitive and can work at a large angle range of oblique incidence, for instance absorptance can be maintained nearly unchanged up to 40° for transverse electric polarization and up to 45° for transverse magnetic polarization. Except for the layer stacking, our design is very easy to be realized in experiment, since only the simple square shape and a uniform 0.4 eV Fermi level are used in our design, which may play an important role in future terahertz device applications.
The kinetics of the chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of graphene on Cu in CH4 + H2 were investigated by monitoring the graphene flake size as a function of CVD growth time. A growth model was set up which relates the CVD parameters to the mass action constant Qexp of the methane decomposition reaction toward graphene at a given temperature T. Graphene growth was shown to proceed from pre-equilibrated adsorbed carbon (Cad) within a wide CVD parameter range. The model not only leads to the correct scaling relation of the growth kinetics but quantitatively determines how far the CVD parameters deviate from thermal equilibrium and correctly predicts the absolute flake size increase per time. Fitting experimental data delivers the energy barrier for carbon detachment from the graphene island edge (Edet = 4.7 ± 0.3 eV) and the methane decomposition entropy toward Cad on Cu (ΔdecS° = 260 ± 20 J mol-1 K-1). The latter value is used to estimate the vanishingly small Cad equilibrium concentration of 3 × 10-10 monolayers at 1045 °C. The universal validity of the model is proven by comparison with literature data providing the correct order of magnitude growth velocities up to 1000 μm/h. The performed reactor experiments deliver data that match the predicted flake growth velocity with a precision of about 50%. The obtained results can be used to calibrate any hot wall CVD reactor setup for the methane decomposition reaction toward graphene on Cu. The description can be directly applied for any hydrocarbon in the gas feed, and the technique can be easily applied for other catalytic support surfaces.
We propose a new type of spin-valley locking (SVL), named C-paired SVL, in antiferromagnetic systems, which directly connects the spin/valley space with the real space, and hence enables both static and dynamical controls of spin and valley to realize a multifunctional antiferromagnetic material. The new emergent quantum degree of freedom in the C-paired SVL is comprised of spin-polarized valleys related by a crystal symmetry instead of the time-reversal symmetry. Thus, both spin and valley can be accessed by simply breaking the corresponding crystal symmetry. Typically, one can use a strain field to induce a large net valley polarization/magnetization and use a charge current to generate a large noncollinear spin current. We predict the realization of the C-paired SVL in monolayer V2Se2O, which indeed exhibits giant piezomagnetism and can generate a large transverse spin current. Our findings provide unprecedented opportunities to integrate various controls of spin and valley with nonvolatile information storage in a single material, which is highly desirable for versatile fundamental research and device applications.
Abstract Pentadiamond is a carbon allotrope consisting of hybrid sp 2 and sp 3 atoms, which has been predicted to be stable and synthesizable. In this work we employ first-principles calculations to explore the electronic structure, optical characteristics, mechanical response and lattice thermal conductivity of pentadiamond, performing a direct comparison with the corresponding properties in diamond. The HSE06 density functional predicts indirect electronic band gaps for pentadiamond and diamond with values of 3.58 eV and 5.27 eV, respectively. Results for optical characteristics reveal pentadiamond’s large absorption in the middle UV region, where diamond does not absorb light, consistent with the smaller band gap of pentadiamond. The elastic modulus and tensile strength of pentadiamond are found to be 496 GPa and 60 GPa, respectively, considerably lower than the corresponding values for diamond. The lattice thermal conductivity is examined by solving the Boltzmann transport equation, with anharmonic force constants evaluated via state-of-the-art machine-learning interatomic potentials. We predict a thermal conductivity of 427 W/m-K for pentadiamond, less than one fifth of the corresponding quantity for diamond. Our results provide a useful vision of the intrinsic properties of pentadiamond, but also highlight some of its disadvantages in mechanical strength and heat conduction when compared to diamond.
Abstract The electronic and magnetic properties of Be- and C-doped t-AlN monolayers are studied using spin-polarized density functional calculations. The results show that the Be- and C-doped t-AlN monolayers have magnetic semiconductor feature, and the generated magnetic moments are free of d electrons. Both of the Be- and C-doped t-AlN monolayers show the traits of ferromagnetic (FM) state. Especially for the Be-doped system, it can exhibit robust long-distance magnetic coupling. Finally, under the biaxial strains from −6% to +6%, they still possess the magnetic semiconductor feature, except that the Be-doped t-AlN monolayer becomes half-metallic characteristic by applying −4% compressive strain.
The ascending trend of Moore’s law has stretched to the horizon, where the prospects of carbon-based materials show the potential of replacing the silicon-based complementary metal-oxide semiconductor technology. These alternatives include nanowire transistors, carbon nanotube field-effect transistors, quantum-dot cellular automata, and graphene nanoribbon field-effect transistors (GNRFETs). This paper presents a review of the evolution of graphene, its fabrication process, and graphene-based field-effect transistor device structures. The diverse features of graphene as a material are derived from its structural, electronic, and thermal properties. A brief review of the techniques utilized for the fabrication of GNRFETs is mentioned in this paper. GNRFETs are based on excellent electrical properties that include strong ballistic transport, high current ratio, better compatibility with high K dielectrics, high electron mobility, reliability, scalability, and transconductance. GNRFET structures are reviewed for several aspects which include the Ion/Ioff ratio, subthreshold swing, oxide thickness, high K dielectrics, etc. that help to monitor the improvement in the performance of GNRFET devices. A comparison of the structures is presented to help researchers have a fair idea of the impact of modifications on device performance. The compact model used to simulate GNRFET-based devices is also included in this paper. GNRFET-based devices have several applications to offer in the current scenario. This paper also reports several applications of present GNRFET-based devices.
It has been recently reported that a magic angle, i.e. 1.1°, exists in twisted bilayer graphene which could lead to intrinsic unconventional superconductivity. Variations of the twisting angle between different graphene layers could lead to altered electronic band structures, which results in the peculiar superconductivity phenomenon. The effects of twisting angles on different properties of bilayer graphene need to be comprehensively investigated in order to fully understand its mechanism. In this work, classical molecular dynamics simulations are performed to calculate the interfacial thermal resistance (R) at twisting angles from 0° to 359°. Due to the symmetric structures of the honeycomb lattice, only angles from 0° to 60° are needed but the full spectrum is explored to generate the complete picture of R with θ. It was reported that the interfacial thermal resistance changes periodically with the twisting angle, with the smallest R values at every 60° starting from 0° and the largest values at every 60° starting from 30°. The phonon density of states and radial distribution functions are calculated to explain the predicted results. The effects of temperature and single- and bi-direction tensile strains on the calculated interfacial thermal resistance are also studied. The results in this work contribute to the fundamental understanding of the thermal properties in twisted bilayer graphene and provide reasonable guidelines to its applications in thermal management devices.
We studied the dissociation of water (H2O*, with * denoting adspecies) on atomic oxygen (O*)-covered Rh nanoclusters (RhO* ) supported on a graphene film grown on a Ru(0001) surface [G/Ru(0001)] under ultrahigh-vacuum conditions and with varied surface-probe techniques and calculations based on density-functional theory. The graphene had a single rotational domain; its lattice expanded by about 5.7% to match the Ru substrate structurally better. The Rh clusters were grown by depositing Rh vapors onto G/Ru(0001); they had an fcc phase and grew in (111) orientation. Water adsorbed on the Rh clusters was dissociated exclusively in the presence of O*, like that on a Rh(111) single-crystal surface. Contrary to the case on Rh(111)O* , excess O* (even at a saturation level) on small RhO* clusters (diameter of 30-34 Å) continued to promote, instead of inhibiting, the dissociation of water; the produced hydroxyl (OH*) increased generally with the concentration of O* on the clusters. The difference results from more reactive O* on the RhO* clusters. O* on RhO* clusters activated the dissociation via both the formation of hydrogen bonds with H2O* and abstraction of H directly from H2O*, whereas O* on Rh(111)O* assisted the dissociation largely via the formation of hydrogen bonds, which was readily obstructed with an increased O* coverage. As the disproportionation (2 OH* → H2O* + O*) is endothermic on the RhO* clusters but exothermic on Rh(111)O* , OH* produced on RhO* clusters showed a thermal stability superior to that on the Rh(111)O* surface-thermally stable up to 400 K.
Monolayer Cu2Se is a novel two-dimensional (2D) material, but its fundamental properties have not been adequately investigated. Hence, in this work, we investigate the adsorption behaviors of various elements on monolayer Cu2Se using first-principles density functional theory calculations. The considered elements include metals (Li, Na, Al, K, Ca, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Pd, Ag, Pt, and Au) and nonmetals (H, B, C, N, and O). The adsorption of all these atoms is exothermic with substantial binding energy. Although monolayer Cu2Se forms strong bonds with all the adsorbates, it still preserves its layered structure. This atomic adsorption substantially modifies the electronic properties of the 2D Cu2Se. In particular, N, Fe, Co, Ni, and Au adatoms give rise to mid-gap states within the bandgap of monolayer Cu2Se; furthermore, except for Au, the other adatoms exhibit magnetic moments. Naturally, this electronic structure modification also leads to changes in the work function of monolayer Cu2Se. The present work demonstrates that atomic adsorption can optimize the properties of monolayer Cu2Se.
The successful exfoliation of few-layer graphene from monolith graphite in 2004 has stimulated an exponential growth in graphene research. Ten years later, a facile and cost-effective method was discovered to synthesize high-quality graphene by directly scribing commercially available polymer using a CO2 laser under ambient conditions. The product, denoted as laser-induced graphene (LIG), featured high porosity, excellent electron conductivity, intrinsic photothermal effects and tunable surface properties. Since the discovery, LIG has attracted intense attention from both academia and industry and found broad applications in areas such as energy conversion and storage, sensors, antibacterials and desalination. In this review, we focus on the recent advances of LIG in environmental applications. We start with the development of synthetic techniques, including the precise engineering of LIG properties and the transfer strategies towards functional LIG composites. The achievement in synthesis enables the environmental applications of LIG in a broad context. Finally, the challenges and opportunities in solving different environmental issues using LIG are discussed.
This paper constructs a new type of two-dimensional graphene-like Janus GaInSTe monolayer and systematically investigates its structural and electronic properties as well as the effect of external electric field using first-principles calculations. In the ground state, Janus GaInSTe monolayer is dynamically stable with no imaginary frequencies in its phonon spectrum and possesses a direct band gap semiconductor. The band gap of Janus GaInSTe monolayer can be tuned by applying an electric field, which leads the different transitions from semiconductor to metal, and from indirect to direct band gap. These findings show a great potential application of Janus GaInSTe material for designing next-generation devices.
Dumbbell-like structures are recently found to be energetically favored in group IV two-dimensional (2D) materials, exhibiting rich physics and many interesting properties. In this paper, using first-principles calculations, we have investigated the oxidized form of the hexagonal honeycomb (ODB-h) and zigzag dumbbell silicene (ODB-z). We confirm that both oxidization processes are energetically favorable, and their phonon spectra further demonstrate the dynamic stability. Contrary to the pristine dumbbell silicene structures (PDB-h and PDB-z silicene), these oxidized products ODB-h and ODB-z silicene are both semimetals with Dirac cones at the Fermi level. The Dirac cones of ODB-h and ODB-z silicene are at the K point and between Y and Γ points respectively, possessing high Fermi velocities of 3.1 × 105 m s−1 (ODB-h) and 2.9–3.4 × 105 m s−1 (ODB-z). The origin of the Dirac cones is further explained by tight-binding models. The semimetallic properties of ODB-h and ODB-z are sensitive to compression due to the self-absorption effect, but quite robust against the tensile strain. These outstanding properties make oxidized dumbbell silicene a promising material for quantum computing and high-speed electronic devices.
In the present study, a modified electrosensor based on one-pot green synthesized palladium doped reduced graphene oxide composite (Pd@rGO) has been developed for the electrochemical determination of hydrogen peroxide. The electrochemical features of the electrosensor was appraised by cyclic voltammetry (CV) and differential puls voltammetry (DPV) techniques. The Pd@rGO modified glassy carbon electrode exhibited a superior electroactivity as against to unmodified glassy carbon electrode (GCE). It demonstrated a superior performance toward hydrogen peroxide in the concentration range of 10 μM and 1.0 mM with a detection limit of 0.12 μM. The selectivity of the sensor was investigated in the presence of various biological interferents like glucose, ascorbic acid, dopamine, paracetamol and uric acid. The results showed that the electrosensor had no considerable reponse to those of intererent substances.
Graphene’s many excellent properties have cemented it as an essential research topic in materials science and beyond. It is widely used in photoelectric materials, sensors, battery electrode materials, composites, and so on. Graphene has attracted particular attention in the field of tribology. However, graphene agglomerates easily, limiting its performance when used directly. Therefore, considerable research has focused on methods of modifying the surface of graphene to improve its tribological performance, by improving the dispersion stability, friction reduction, wear resistance, or a combination of these. This paper focuses on the research progress of surface modification of graphene-based materials for tribological applications. According to the reaction principles, surface modification methods can be divided into covalent surface modification, noncovalent surface modification, and surface modification by nanoparticles doping. Herein, the typical reaction processes of these modification methods and the anti-wear mechanism of modified graphene-based materials are introduced, and current research on the surface modification of graphene used in tribology is discussed.
Abstract Band structures of group-IV two-dimensional materials are studied by carrying out first-principles calculations including spin-orbit coupling (SOC). We propose a method that identifies irreducible representations (IR) of bands by using computers. We identify IR for the planar and buckled structures and discuss the difference between bands obtained by non-SOC and SOC calculations. In particular, we clarify IR at the Dirac point where the bands split because of the SOC. We evaluate the Z 2 invariants based on identified IR, which suggests that all the systems are topological insulators.
Nanostructures with well-defined structures and rich active sites occupy an important position for efficient energy storage and conversion. Recent studies have shown that a transition metal chalcogenide (TMC) has a unique structure, such as diverse structural morphology, excellent stability, high efficiency, etc., and is used in the fields of electrochemistry and catalysis. The nanohollow structure metal chalcogenide has broad application prospects due to the existence of a large number of active sites and a wide internal space, allowing a large number of ions and electrons to be transported. Summarizing synthetic strategies of nanostructured hollow transition metal sulfides (HTMC) and their applications in the field of energy storage and conversion is discussed here. Through some representative examples, the fabrication and properties of various hollow structures are analyzed, which prompt some emerging nanoengineering designs to be applied to transition metal chalcogenides. It is hoped that the construction of the HTMC will lead to a deeper understanding for the further exploration of energy storage and conversion.
Though the positive role of alkali halides in realizing large area growth of transition metal dichalcogenide layers has been validated, the film-growth kinematics has not yet been fully established. This work presents a systematic analysis of the MoS2 morphology for films grown under various pre-treatment conditions of the substrate with sodium chloride (NaCl). At an optimum NaCl concentration, the domain size of the monolayer increased by almost two orders of magnitude compared to alkali-free growth of MoS2. The results show an inverse relationship between fractal dimension and areal coverage of the substrate with monolayers and multi-layers, respectively. Using the Fact-Sage software, the role of NaCl in determining the partial pressures of Mo- and S-based compounds in gaseous phase at the growth temperature is elucidated. The presence of alkali salts is shown to affect the domain size and film morphology by affecting the Mo and S partial pressures. Compared to alkali-free synthesis under the same growth conditions, MoS2 film growth assisted by NaCl results in ≈81% of the substrate covered by monolayers. Under ideal growth conditions, at an optimum NaCl concentration, nucleation was suppressed, and domains enlarged, resulting in large area growth of MoS2 monolayers. No evidence of alkali or halogen atoms were found in the composition analysis of the films. On the basis of Raman spectroscopy and photoluminescence measurements, the MoS2 films were found to be of good crystalline quality.
A growing family of two-dimensional (2D) transition metal carbides or nitrides, known as MXenes, have received increasing attention because of their unique properties, such as metallic conductivity and good hydrophilicity. The studies on MXenes have been widely pursued, given the composition diversity of the parent MAX phases. This review focuses on MXene films, an important form of MXene-based materials for practical applications. We summarized the synthesis methods of MXenes, focusing on emerging synthesis strategies and reaction mechanisms. The advanced assembly technologies of MXene films, including vacuum-assisted filtration, spin-coating methods, and several other approaches, were then highlighted. Finally, recent progress in the applications of MXene films in electrochemical energy storage, membrane separation, electromagnetic shielding fields, and burgeoning areas, as well as the correlation between compositions, architecture, and performance, was discussed.
Abstract Zn2GeO4/rGO composite photocatalysts were prepared by hydrothermal method with Zn2GeO4 and GO as precursors, and ethanol/water solvent as a reducing agent. Reduced graphene oxide was combined with Zn2GeO4 nanorods in order to improve photocatalytic activity of Zn2GeO4 through improving its surface area, adsorption capacity, charges separation and transportation ability. Then the composite photocatalysts were characterized by XRD, FESEM, EDS and UV–vis DRS. RhB synthetic dye wastewater was used as the target to investigate the effect of each reaction parameter on the degradation rate; the catalytic performance stability of the composite photocatalyst was investigated under the obtained optimal reaction conditions; and the reaction kinetics and reaction mechanism of the synthetic wastewater treatment process were preliminarily analyzed. The study shows that the Zn2GeO4/rGO composite photocatalyst prepared by hydrothermal method has better photocatalytic activity under xenon light illumination, and the wastewater treatment process conforms first-order reaction kinetic characteristics; during the treatment, the dye molecules are directly degraded by the composite photocatalyst, and no other luminescent groups are produced. The Zn2GeO4/rGO composite photocatalyst with good photocatalytic activity and stability under visible light irradiation can be prepared by hydrothermal method for dye wastewater treatment.
We review the recent advance in the understanding of the optoelectronic properties of hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) in the deep ultraviolet. The comparison between bulk hBN and monolayer hBN highlights some of their major differences such the bandgap nature, the excitonic binding energy and the phononassisted broadening of the excitonic lines. Perspectives point out the relevance of addressing the regime of hBN samples made of a very few number of monolayers, including twisted hBN monolayers in the context of twistronics. Résumé. Cette revue est dédiée aux progrès récents dans la compréhension des propriétés optoélectroniques du nitrure de bore hexagonal (hBN) dans l’ultraviolet profond. La comparaison entre un cristal massif de hBN et une monocouche de hBN montre quelques unes de leurs différences majeures telles que la nature de la bande interdite, l’énergie de liaison excitonique ainsi que l’élargissement des raies excitoniques assisté par phonons. Les perspectives mettent en avant la nécessité d’étudier le régime d’échantillons composés de quelques monocouches de hBN, y compris des monocouches tournées dans le contexte actuel de la twistronique.
All-phenylene molecular spoked wheels, cutouts of graphenylene-3, have been synthesized by intramolecular Yamamoto coupling of the respective dodecabromides.
