Similarity breeds connection. This principle—the homophily principle—structures network ties of every type, including marriage, friendship, work, advice, support, information transfer, exchange, comembership, and other types of relationship. The result is that people's personal networks are homogeneous with regard to many sociodemographic, behavioral, and intrapersonal characteristics. Homophily limits people's social worlds in a way that has powerful implications for the information they receive, the attitudes they form, and the interactions they experience. Homophily in race and ethnicity creates the strongest divides in our personal environments, with age, religion, education, occupation, and gender following in roughly that order. Geographic propinquity, families, organizations, and isomorphic positions in social systems all create contexts in which homophilous relations form. Ties between nonsimilar individuals also dissolve at a higher rate, which sets the stage for the formation of niches (localize...
Abstract Social media influencer marketing has recently received significant attention. Many studies have explored the parasocial relationship (PSR) formation between influencers and followers. PSR has not often been weighted against other widely used relationship marketing constructs, despite the multitude of PSR studies. This study developed a research model based on the theory of persuasion, which was constructed to investigate the relative weight of the PSR. The study considered three personal attributes (attitude homophily, physical attractiveness, and social attractiveness) and three characterizations (trustworthiness, perceived expertise, and PSR) as antecedents of purchase intention. Data were collected through a survey of respondents who bought products/services after watching YouTube advertisements made by influencers. The study found that PSR had a significantly positive impact on purchase intentions relative to other characterizations and that PSR was significantly related to the three personal attributes. In addition, PSR formation was significantly influenced by consumers’ perceived influencer types. The survey showed that social media influencer marketing strategies need to be fine-tuned based on personal attributes, characterizations, and influencer types. This paper discusses the theoretical and practical implications of these findings.
Abstract Despite recent empirical interest in intellectual humility (IH), numerous concerns exist regarding the validity of current measurement strategies. This study provides an assessment of four widely employed IH scales by comparing and contrasting self- and informant ratings. Results reveal clear differences, showing weak self-other agreement and distinct patterns of associations with the Big Five. An analysis of the dimensions of these scales, however, suggests that certain components may be better suited for informant judgments than are others. These results emphasize the need for researchers interested in this construct to pair their measurement strategy with the facet of the trait of most interest.
Group recommendation aims to recommend items to a group of users. In this work, we study group recommendation in a particular scenario, namely occasional group recommendation, where groups are formed ad hoc and users may just constitute a group for the first time—that is, the historical group-item interaction records are highly limited. Most state-of-the-art works have addressed the challenge by aggregating group members’ personal preferences to learn the group representation. However, the representation learning for a group is most complex beyond the aggregation or fusion of group member representation, as the personal preferences and group preferences may be in different spaces and even orthogonal. In addition, the learned user representation is not accurate due to the sparsity of users’ interaction data. Moreover, the group similarity in terms of common group members has been overlooked, which, however, has the great potential to improve the group representation learning. In this work, we focus on addressing the aforementioned challenges in the group representation learning task, and devise a hierarchical hyperedge embedding-based group recommender, namely HyperGroup. Specifically, we propose to leverage the user-user interactions to alleviate the sparsity issue of user-item interactions, and design a graph neural network-based representation learning network to enhance the learning of individuals’ preferences from their friends’ preferences, which provides a solid foundation for learning groups’ preferences. To exploit the group similarity (i.e., overlapping relationships among groups) to learn a more accurate group representation from highly limited group-item interactions, we connect all groups as a network of overlapping sets (a.k.a. hypergraph), and treat the task of group preference learning as embedding hyperedges (i.e., user sets/groups) in a hypergraph, where an inductive hyperedge embedding method is proposed. To further enhance the group-level preference modeling, we develop a joint training strategy to learn both user-item and group-item interactions in the same process. We conduct extensive experiments on two real-world datasets, and the experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our proposed HyperGroup in comparison to the state-of-the-art baselines.

Social recommendation has achieved great success in many domains including e-commerce and location-based social networks. Existing methods usually explore the user-item interactions or user-user connections to predict users’ preference behaviors. However, they usually learn both user and item representations in Euclidean space, which has large limitations for exploring the latent hierarchical property in the data. In this article, we study a novel problem of hyperbolic social recommendation, where we aim to learn the compact but strong representations for both users and items. Meanwhile, this work also addresses two critical domain-issues, which are under-explored. First, users often make trade-offs with multiple underlying aspect factors to make decisions during their interactions with items. Second, users generally build connections with others in terms of different aspects, which produces different influences with aspects in social network. To this end, we propose a novel graph neural network (GNN) framework with multiple aspect learning, namely, HyperSoRec. Specifically, we first embed all users, items, and aspects into hyperbolic space with superior representations to ensure their hierarchical properties. Then, we adapt a GNN with novel multi-aspect message-passing-receiving mechanism to capture different influences among users. Next, to characterize the multi-aspect interactions of users on items, we propose an adaptive hyperbolic metric learning method by introducing learnable interactive relations among different aspects. Finally, we utilize the hyperbolic translational distance to measure the plausibility in each user-item pair for recommendation. Experimental results on two public datasets clearly demonstrate that our HyperSoRec not only achieves significant improvement for recommendation performance but also shows better representation ability in hyperbolic space with strong robustness and reliability.
Abstract Previous studies on adolescent friendship network formation emphasize the roles played by individual characteristics, structural opportunities, and endogenous tie formation processes. This study extends previous studies in three major aspects: 1) developing and testing theories of status differential (i.e., friendship ties are more likely to run from low status subjects to high status subjects than vice versa) and differential homophily (i.e., homophily is stronger between high status subjects than between low status subjects) through modeling tie-mixing effects of individual characteristics, 2) including qualitative analyses to elaborate selected mechanisms, and 3) comparing selected friendship patterns between China and the U.S. The extended framework is applied to analyzing survey data obtained from 4,094 students in six middle schools in China. The results show that friendship ties are unevenly distributed by individual characteristics (status differential is confirmed for five of the seven characteristics examined), there is significant tie homophily (stronger homophily among high status subjects than among low status subjects is observed for five of the seven characteristics examined with three of them being statistically significant), and endogenous tie formation processes such as reciprocity, transitivity, and preferential attachment are strongly present. Although some of these patterns are common to both China and the U.S., there are also notable differences between the two. Lastly, I discuss the implications and limitations of this study.
Abstract Consumers share the physical environment with other consumers in various service settings. The presence of other consumers is a critical part of the service experience and can influence consumer behavior. What is the underlying impact of fellow customers in service settings? To address this research question, we examine how the demographic (age, race, gender, and income) similarity of other consumers in a service setting impacts one’s attitude and behavior. Specifically, we examine consumers’: (i) intention to return, and (ii) expenditure. Analysis of a large database (216,082 consumer visits to 236 restaurant brands in the United States and Canada) suggest that age, gender and income similarity between the focal customer and other customers increases intention to return. Furthermore, results indicate that age and income similarity among customers increases customer expenditure. However, race and gender similarity among customers decreases customer expenditure. Theoretical and managerial implications of the findings are discussed.
Abstract Knowledge about the relationship between the spatial organisation of personal social networks and physical mobility is important for understanding spatial problems and social inequalities that are inseparable from spatial and social structures. To provide further insights into these relationships, this study investigates the link between the spatial distribution of individuals’ social networks and spatial mobility. We collected data from a group of ‘highly skilled’ individuals with a smartphone application and combined quantitative surveys. In general, individuals with dispersed networks tend to have more spatial mobility. Our typological approach reveals three distinctive types: (A) dispersed networks and high mobility, (B) dispersed networks and low mobility, and (C) concentrated networks and low mobility. This typology is explained by gender, the composition of the network, and the use of mobile phones and social media.
Over the last decade, vegan advocates have become a growing minority. By arguing against animal-product consumption and imposing the virtue-loaded call to "go vegan," advocates have posed a direct challenge to the mainstream dietary ideology (termed "carnism") in hopes of positive social change. As a consequence, while vegan advocates may be admired for their morality and commitment, they may also be derogated with moralistic traits such as arrogance and overcommitment. We call this mixed-valence perception the "vegan paradox" and propose a theoretical framework for understanding it. Next, we develop a future research agenda to test and apply our framework, and inquire vegan advocacy for ethical, health, and environmental aims. Using the perspective of the idealistic vegan advocate as a reference point, we discuss the roles of the advocate's motives for change (i.e., the effectiveness of moral persuasion), the advocate's call for change (i.e., radical versus incremental change), the target's moral and carnist identification, and source attributes of the advocate. Lastly, we qualify our framework by highlighting further conceptual and methodological considerations.
Social media networks (SMN) such as Facebook and Twitter are infamous for facilitating the spread of potentially false rumors. Although it has been argued that SMN enable their users to identify and challenge false rumors through collective efforts to make sense of unverified information—a process typically referred to as self-correction—evidence suggests that users frequently fail to distinguish among rumors before they have been resolved. How users evaluate the veracity of a rumor can depend on the appraisals of others who participate in a conversation. Affordances such as the searchability of SMN, which enables users to learn about a rumor through dedicated search and query features rather than relying on interactions with their relational connections, might therefore affect the veracity judgments at which they arrive. This paper uses agent-based simulations to illustrate that searchability can hinder actors seeking to evaluate the trustworthiness of a rumor’s source and hence impede self-correction. The findings indicate that exchanges between related users can increase the likelihood that trustworthy agents transmit rumor messages, which can promote the propagation of useful information and corrective posts.
Android has become the most popular mobile operating system. Correspondingly, an increasing number of Android malware has been developed and spread to steal users’ private information. There exists one type of malware whose benign behaviors are developed to camouflage malicious behaviors. The malicious component occupies a small part of the entire code of the application (app for short), and the malicious part is strongly coupled with the benign part. In this case, the malware may cause false negatives when malware detectors extract features from the entire apps to conduct classification because the malicious features of these apps may be hidden among benign features. Moreover, some previous work aims to divide the entire app into several parts to discover the malicious part. However, the premise of these methods to commence app partition is that the connections between the normal part and the malicious part are weak (repackaged malware). In this paper, we call this type of malware as Android covert malware and generate the first dataset of covert malware. To detect covert malware samples, we first conduct static analysis to extract the function call graphs. Through the deep analysis on call graphs, we observe that although the correlations between the normal part and the malicious part in these graphs are high, the degree of these correlations has a unique range of distribution. Based on the observation, we design a novel system, HomDroid, to detect covert malware by analyzing the homophily of call graphs. We identify the ideal threshold of correlation to distinguish the normal part and the malicious part based on the evaluation results on a dataset of 4,840 benign apps and 3,385 covert malicious apps. According to our evaluation results, HomDroid is capable of detecting 96.8% of covert malware while the False Negative Rates of another four state-of-the-art systems (PerDroid, Drebin, MaMaDroid, and IntDroid) are 30.7%, 16.3%, 15.2%, and 10.4%, respectively.
The ability for people and organizations to connect in the digital age has allowed the growth of networks that cover an increasing proportion of human interactions. The research community investigating networks asks a range of questions such as which participants are most central, and which community label to apply to each member. This paper deals with the question on how to label nodes based on the features (attributes) they contain, and then how to model the changes in the label assignments based on the influence they produce and receive in their networked neighborhood. The methodological approach applies the simple graph convolutional neural network in a novel setting. Primarily that it can be used not only for label classification, but also for modeling the spread of the influence of nodes in the neighborhoods based on the length of the walks considered. This is done by noticing a common feature in the formulations in methods that describe information diffusion which rely upon adjacency matrix powers and that of graph neural networks. Examples are provided to demonstrate the ability for this model to aggregate feature information from nodes based on a parameter regulating the range of node influence which can simulate a process of exchanges in a manner which bypasses computationally intensive stochastic simulations.
We examine the value relevance of insider trades in Europe and find that both purchases and sales of well-connected insiders are positively associated with long-term abnormal returns. We argue that the market perceives the purchases of networked insiders as more informative, leading to higher returns. For sales of networked insiders, the market decreases their negative information content, leading to lower negative returns. Our results do not support the view that insiders use their informational advantage to extract economic rents in the form of dollar profits. We posit that they use their networks to provide signals to the market when trading.
The seating arrangement of in-center hemodialysis is conducive to patients forming a relationship and a social network. We examined how seating in the in-center hemodialysis clinic affected patients forming relationships, whether patients formed relationships with others who have similar transplant behaviors (homophily), and whether these relationships influenced patients (social contagion) to request a living donation from family and friends outside of the clinic.In this 30-month, prospective cohort study, we observed the relationships of 46 patients on hemodialysis in a hemodialysis clinic. Repeated participant surveys assessed in-center transplant discussions and living-donor requests. A separable temporal exponential random graph model estimated how seating, demographics, in-center transplant discussions, and living-donor requests affected relationship formation via sociality and homophily. We examined whether donation requests spread via social contagion using a susceptibility-infected model.For every seat apart, the odds of participants forming a relationship decreased (OR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.61 to 0.90; P=0.002). Those who requested a living donation tended to form relationships more than those who did not (sociality, OR, 1.6; 95% CI, 1.02 to 2.6; P=0.04). Participants who discussed transplantation in the center were more likely to form a relationship with another participant who discussed transplantation than with someone who did not discuss transplantation (homophily, OR, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.03 to 3.5; P=0.04). Five of the 36 susceptible participants made a request after forming a relationship with another patient.Participants formed relationships with those they sat next to and had similar transplant behaviors. The observed increase in in-center transplant discussions and living-donation requests by the members of the hemodialysis-clinic social network was not because of social contagion. Instead, participants who requested a living donation were more social, formed more relationships within the clinic, and discussed transplantation with each other as a function of health-behavior homophily.
Abstract The widespread diffusion of connected smart devices has greatly contributed to the rapid expansion and evolution of the Internet at its edge, where personal mobile devices follow the behavior of their human users and interact with other smart objects located in the surroundings. In such a scenario, the user context is represented by a large variety of information that can rapidly change, and the ability of personal mobile devices to locally process this data is fundamental to make the system able to quickly adapt its behavior to the current situation. This ability, in practice, can be represented by a single elaboration process integrated in the final user application, or by a middleware platform aimed at implementing different context processing and reasoning to support third-party applications. However, the lack of public datasets that take into account the complexity of the user context in the mobile environment strongly limits the advance of the research in this field. In this paper, we present MyDigitalFootprint, a novel large-scale dataset composed of smartphone embedded sensors data, physical proximity information, and Online Social Networks interactions aimed at supporting multimodal context-recognition and social relationships modeling. The dataset includes two months of measurements and information collected from the personal mobile devices of 31 volunteer users, in their natural environment, without limiting their usual behavior. Existing public datasets generally consist of a limited set of context data, aimed at optimizing specific application domains (human activity recognition is the most common example). On the contrary, our dataset contains a comprehensive set of information describing the user context in the mobile environment. In order to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed dataset, we present three context-aware applications based on different machine learning tasks: (i) a social link prediction algorithm based on physical proximity data, (ii) the recognition of daily-life activities based on smartphone-embedded sensors data, and (iii) a pervasive context-aware recommender system. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first large-scale dataset containing such heterogeneity of information, representing an invaluable source of data to validate new research in mobile and edge computing.
Many modern interactions happen in a digital space, where automated recommendations and homophily can shape the composition of groups interacting together and the knowledge that groups are able to tap into when operating online. Digital interactions are also characterized by different scales, from small interest groups to large online communities. Here, we manipulate the composition of groups based on a large multi-trait profiling space (including demographic, professional, psychological and relational variables) to explore the causal link between group composition and performance as a function of group size. We asked volunteers to search news online under time pressure and measured individual and group performance in forecasting real geo-political events. Our manipulation affected the correlation of forecasts made by people after online searches. Group composition interacted with group size so that composite diversity benefited individual and group performance proportionally to group size. Aggregating opinions of modular crowds composed of small independent groups achieved better forecasts than aggregating a similar number of forecasts from non-modular ones. Finally, we show differences existing among groups in terms of disagreement, speed of convergence to consensus forecasts and within-group variability in performance. The present work sheds light on the mechanisms underlying effective online information gathering in digital environments.
Abstract Centralities are a widely studied phenomenon in network science. In policy networks, central actors are of interest because they are assumed to control information flows, to link opposing coalitions and to directly impact decision-making. First, we study what type of actor (e.g., state authorities or interest groups) is able to occupy central positions in the highly institutionalized context of policy networks. Second, we then ask whether bonding or bridging centralities prove to be more stable over time. Third, we investigate how these types of centrality influence actors’ positions in a network over time. We therefore adopt a longitudinal perspective and run exponential random graph models, including lagged central network positions at t1 as the main independent variable for actors’ activity and popularity at t2. Results confirm that very few actors are able to maintain central positions over time.
Abstract This article emphasizes the importance of actor networks for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), and suggests how a network perspective can contribute to our understanding of (global) sustainability governance. Actor networks are often driven by homophily, as actors tend to interact with those similar to them. Yet, not least in a context sustainability governance, heterophily of actor cooperation is claimed to be beneficial. In contrast to homophily, heterophily represents situations where actors cooperate with those that are different, and thus combine diverse sets of knowledge and competences. Based on the case of Swiss actors involved in the implementation of the SDG 6 on water in countries of the global South, we use social network analysis and qualitative interview data to study how homophily and heterophily influence actors' information exchange. According to quantitative network data, information exchange between actors is indeed influenced by homophily regarding the type of actor and the policy forums actors are participating in. Nevertheless, we also find evidence for heterophily, as actors tend to exchange information with actors with different methodological foci. Furthermore, qualitative interview data show that actors perceive heterophilous network ties as beneficial for SDG implementation.
Grouping well-connected nodes that also result in label-homogeneous clusters is a task often known as attribute-aware community discovery. While approaching node-enriched graph clustering methods, rigorous tools need to be developed for evaluating the quality of the resulting partitions. In this work, we present X-Mark , a model that generates synthetic node-attributed graphs with planted communities. Its novelty consists in forming communities and node labels contextually while handling categorical or continuous attributive information. Moreover, we propose a comparison between attribute-aware algorithms, testing them against our benchmark. Accordingly to different classification schema from recent state-of-the-art surveys, our results suggest that X-Mark can shed light on the differences between several families of algorithms.
It has been the historic responsibility of the social sciences to investigate human societies. Fulfilling this responsibility requires social theories, measurement models and social data. Most existing theories and measurement models in the social sciences were not developed with the deep societal reach of algorithms in mind. The emergence of 'algorithmically infused societies'-societies whose very fabric is co-shaped by algorithmic and human behaviour-raises three key challenges: the insufficient quality of measurements, the complex consequences of (mis)measurements, and the limits of existing social theories. Here we argue that tackling these challenges requires new social theories that account for the impact of algorithmic systems on social realities. To develop such theories, we need new methodologies for integrating data and measurements into theory construction. Given the scale at which measurements can be applied, we believe measurement models should be trustworthy, auditable and just. To achieve this, the development of measurements should be transparent and participatory, and include mechanisms to ensure measurement quality and identify possible harms. We argue that computational social scientists should rethink what aspects of algorithmically infused societies should be measured, how they should be measured, and the consequences of doing so.
We address the problem of inferring an undirected graph from nodal observations, which are modeled as non-stationary graph signals generated by local diffusion dynamics that depend on the structure of the unknown network. Using the so-called graph-shift operator (GSO), which is a matrix representation of the graph, we first identify the eigenvectors of the shift matrix from observations of the diffused signals, and then estimate the eigenvalues by imposing desirable properties on the graph to be recovered. Different from the stationary setting where the eigenvectors can be obtained directly from the covariance matrix of the measurements, here we need to estimate first the unknown diffusion (graph) filter – a polynomial in the GSO that preserves the sought eigenbasis. To carry out this initial system identification step, we exploit different sources of information on the arbitrarily-correlated input signal driving the diffusion on the graph. We first explore the setting where the observations, the input information, and the unknown graph filter are linearly related. We then address the case where the relation is given by a system of matrix quadratic equations, which arises in pragmatic scenarios where only the second-order statistics of the inputs are available. While such a quadratic filter identification problem boils down to a non-convex fourth-order polynomial minimization, we discuss identifiability conditions, propose algorithms to approximate the solution, and analyze their performance. Numerical tests illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed topology inference algorithms in recovering brain, social, financial, and urban transportation networks using synthetic and real-world signals.

 
 While the dissolution of new ventures is a common phenomenon in the organizational landscape, it seldom means the end of the road for those involved in the new venture. Nevertheless, most research treats this dissolution with a sense of finality. Using the Danish Integrated Database for Labor Market Research (IDA), we explore the persistence of cofounders and early employees to continue their work relationships after the dissolution of the new venture. We investigate where these team members continue their career and whether they pursue entrepreneurship together in another new venture. Overall, over 18.3% move jointly, and comobility is more prevalent among new venture team members who worked jointly prior to founding the new venture and among those new venture teams demonstrating high levels of homogeneity. Moreover, comovers tend toward small firms, and comobility occurs largely in similar industry. A large share of comovers move to new ventures, which is indicative of serial or habitual new venture teams. This also raises further question on team-level dimension of learning from failure.

The cigarette epidemic tends to develop in a similar pattern across diverse populations in different parts of the world. First, the prevalence of smoking increases, then it plateaus and finally it declines. The decline in smoking prevalence tends to be more pronounced in higher social strata. The later stages of the cigarette epidemic are characterized by emerging and persisting socioeconomic gradients in smoking. Due to its detrimental health consequences, smoking has been the subject of extensive research in a broad range of academic disciplines. I draw on literature from both the social and medical sciences in order to develop a model in which physiological nicotine dependence, individual smoking behaviour and norms surrounding smoking in the immediate social environment are related through reflexive processes. I argue that the emergence and persistence of social gradients in smoking at the later stages of the cigarette epidemic can be attributed to a combination of the pharmacological properties of nicotine, network homophily and the unequal distribution of material and non-material resources across social strata.
This study explores women’s attrition from male-dominated workplaces based on Norwegian public administrative records, covering individuals born 1945–1983, in the period between 2003 and 2013. It e...
We examine why some relationships are more important than others, using a multilevel statistical model and data on personal networks of Australians 50 years and older, collected via a purpose-built Facebook application. While the network data were collected automatically, participants in our study provided data on the importance of their relationships, measured by perceived closeness and access to resources. We find that the information on how network members are connected with each other (network structure) provides powerful insights into what makes a relationship important. When importance is measured by closeness of relationship, important alters are kin, and are alters who are highly connected with others or act as bridges between different groups. When importance is measured by access to resources, important alters are those who act as bridges and are in more densely-knit networks. We discuss our findings in a broader context of research into important relationships in later life, and collecting personal network data via online social networks.

 The purpose of this study is to assess the relationship between adult children's education and older parents’ cognitive health, and the extent to which this relationship is moderated by parents’ own socio-economic and marital statuses. Data using Waves 5 (2000) to 13 (2016) are drawn from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS), a nationally representative panel survey of individuals age 50 and above in the United States of America (USA). Older parents’ cognitive functioning is measured using episodic memory from Waves 5–13. Adult children's education is measured using years of schooling, on average, for all adult children of a respondent. Analyses based on multilevel linear growth curve modelling reveal that parents with well-educated adult children report higher memory score over time compared to their counterparts whose children are not as well-educated. We also find that the positive effect of children's education on parents’ cognitive health is moderated by parents’ own education, though not by their income, occupation or marital status. Our work contributes to the growing body of research on the ‘upward’ flow of resources model that assesses the ways in which personal and social assets of the younger generation shape the health and wellbeing of the older generation. Our findings are particularly relevant to the USA given the enduring linkage between socio-economic status and health, and the limited social and economic protection for those of lower social status.
The characteristics of social partners have long been hypothesized as influential in guiding group interactions. Understanding how demographic cues impact networks of creative collaborators is critical for elevating creative performances therein. We conducted a randomized experiment to investigate how the knowledge of peers’ gender and racial identities distorts people’s connection patterns and the resulting creative outcomes in a dynamic social network. Consistent with prior work, we found that creative inspiration links are primarily formed with top idea-generators. However, when gender and racial identities are known, not only is there (1) an increase of \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \usepackage{upgreek} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document}$$82.03\%$$\end{document}82.03% in the odds of same-gender connections to persist (but not for same-race connections), but (2) the semantic similarity of idea-sets stimulated by these connections also increase significantly compared to demography-agnostic networks, negatively impacting the outcomes of divergent creativity. We found that ideas tend to be significantly more homogeneous within demographic groups than between, taking away diversity-bonuses from similarity-based links and partly explaining the results. These insights can inform intelligent interventions to enhance network-wide creative performances.
Analysing homophily, i.e. people’s tendency to associate with others with similar social attributes, can help us unravel and better understand user behaviour in social media. In our work, we analyse the impact of homophily in discussions regarding the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on Twitter. The Indian Government enacted CAA to provide relaxation in the citizenship process to religious minorities in three neighbouring countries. While it was lauded by many, it also fuelled backlash amongst some Indian citizens, resulting in the emergence of two distinctive political dispositions regarding this matter. We collected 78,004 Tweets, including 11,794 original Tweets during a period of two weeks shortly after the ruling, and examined ways of potentially reducing homophily and therefore minimise the presence of echo chambers. In particular, we investigated users’ political dispositions and expressed sentiment, and how these two social attributes influence homophilic social ties and interactions. Further, we discuss how our findings can be used in social networks to allow people with diverse viewpoints and emotional attitudes to interact with each other in a positive and constructive manner.
Abstract As gatekeepers to elected office, party selectors are often held responsible for the political under-representation of social groups, including immigrant-origin citizens. This article investigates how the socio-demographic characteristics (immigrant background and gender) of heads of list affect the presence and success of immigrant-origin candidates. Heads of lists constitute a unique group, as they simultaneously act as selectors and role models for aspirants and voters. We rely on an original dataset based on the 2018 local elections in Flanders (Belgium) (N = 31,173 candidates on 1309 lists). To our knowledge, it is the first time such a big endeavour is undertaken. The results show that whereas having an immigrant-origin head of list has a positive effect on both the presence and success of other immigrant-origin candidates, having a female head of list does not. We find a spillover effect within one under-represented group, but not between under-represented groups.
While numerous studies have highlighted the consequences of exclusion in STEM, fewer studies have empirically tested the benefits of inclusion in peer relationships. We focus on the impact of having cross-racial or cross-gender study partners among one’s close friends in a national sample of 408 STEM majors. Using structural equation modeling, we examined the direct and indirect relationships between having diverse study partners, key background and college experience variables, and college GPA. We identified a significant positive relationship, both direct and indirect, between studying with a close friend of a different race and GPA. We also found that having a cross-gender study partner is positively linked to organizing study groups and study-faculty interaction, which in turn improves GPA. However, Black students were less likely to have either cross-racial or cross-gender study partners among their close friends. We discuss implications for equity and the need to encourage positive intergroup relations in STEM.
Several established school smoking prevention initiatives involve restrictions on places to smoke. The focus on tobacco control in schools is due to the risk of smoking initiation during adolescence and the perception of this life stage as a period of time when health behavior is established. Hence, this period of time is considered to be ideal for health-promoting initiatives. This paper is part of an ethnographic study on adolescents’ perceptions of tobacco use. Focus groups and field observations were used to explore adolescents’ smoking-related practices related to smoking bans at schools. The findings show that smoking, as a place-based practice, is influenced by locally embedded rules and carries social implications resulting in a distinction between smokers and non-smokers. The distinction between smokers and non-smokers contributes to the retention of a stereotypical view of smokers and, moreover, stigmatizes smokers. According to this, restrictions on places to smoke within the school should be considered carefully in order to avoid stigma or ethical issues.
Accurately describing the lives of historical figures can be challenging, but unraveling their social structures perhaps is even more so. Historical social network analysis methods can help in this regard and may even illuminate individuals who have been overlooked by historians, but turn out to be influential social connection points. Text data, such as biographies, are a useful source of information for learning historical social networks but the identifcation of links based on text data can be challenging. The Local Poisson Graphical Lasso model models social networks by conditional independence structures, and leverages the number of name co-mentions in the text to infer relationships. However, this method does not take into account the abundance of covariate information that is often available in text data. Conditional independence structure like Poisson Graphical Model, which makes use name mention counts in the text can be useful tools to avoid false positive links due to the co-mentions but given historical tendency of frequently used or common names, without additional distinguishing information, we may introduce incorrect connections. In this work, we therefore extend the Local Poisson Graphical Lasso model with a (multiple) penalty structure that incorporates covariates, opening up the opportunity for similar individuals to have a higher probability of being connected. We propose both greedy and Bayesian approaches to estimate the penalty parameters. We present results on data simulated with characteristics of historical networks and show that this type of penalty structure can improve network recovery as measured by precision and recall. We also illustrate the approach on biographical data of individuals who lived in early modern Britain between 1500 and 1575. We will show how these covariates affect the statistical model’s performance using simulations, discuss how it helps to better identify links for the people with common names and those who are traditionally underrepresented in the biography text data.
Neighborhood peer effects have been shown to affect households’ publicly observable decisions, but how they affect private decisions, like mortgage refinancing, remains unclear. Using precisely geolocated data and a nearest-neighbor research design, we find that households are 7% more likely to refinance if a neighbor within 50 meters has recently refinanced. Consistent with a word-of-mouth mechanism, social influence effects are stronger when neighbors live especially nearby, weaker when owners are non-occupants, and stronger when neighbors and owners are of the same race. Our results suggest an important role for neighborhood peer effects in explaining regional variation in refinancing activity. JEL Classification: D12, D14, D71, H31, R23
Building models for realistic natural language tasks requires dealing with long texts and accounting for complicated structural dependencies. Neural-symbolic representations have emerged as a way to combine the reasoning capabilities of symbolic methods, with the expressiveness of neural networks. However, most of the existing frameworks for combining neural and symbolic representations have been designed for classic relational learning tasks that work over a universe of symbolic entities and relations. In this paper, we present DRaiL, an open-source declarative framework for specifying deep relational models, designed to support a variety of NLP scenarios. Our framework supports easy integration with expressive language encoders, and provides an interface to study the interactions between representation, inference and learning.
Social media environments often foster the formation of communities promoted by users’ tendencies toward homophily. These tendencies of connecting with similar users are solidified by the social media companies’ algorithmic and business practices, leading to polarized networks, where communities of different interests rarely interact. This paper investigates via simulations the adoption of a new convention promoted by a persistent minority in a network polarized into two communities. We perform experiments on two real-world networks and various synthetic networks with controlled properties. We discover that the position of the persistent minority has a greater impact on spreading new conventions than its relative size. We also show that although diffusion becomes harder as network polarization increases, a persistent minority can increase its effectiveness in promoting new conventions by targeting low-influence users from the opposite community.
BACKGROUND
Military nurse scientists are embedded in service-affiliated branches (Army, Navy, Air Force) with different missions, but with the singular purpose of generating and disseminating research impacting the health and well-being of DoD beneficiaries.


PURPOSE
This project examines collaboration among TriService Nursing Research Program (TSNRP) members, seeking opportunities to strengthen, diversify, and expand research collaboration.


METHOD
Social network analysis (SNA) is the empirical inquiry of relations among social actors at different levels of analysis. An electronic SNA assessment and total enumerative sampling were used to explore current collaborations among PhD-prepared military nurse scientists (N = 136).


FINDINGS
The TSNRP collaboration network has a complex service-driven structure with high status actors whose advice, knowledge, or skills are sought by others, and who function as connectors or bridges across service branches.


DISCUSSION
For military scientists, SNA is instrumental in identifying influential individuals, visualizing opportunities for intraservice mentoring, designing responsive policy, and directing career opportunities for novice scientists.
Abstract This paper examines how entrepreneurs’ social capital facilitates venture capital financing for their start-ups. We consider three dimensions of social capital – i.e., the structural, cognitive and relational dimensions – and three stages of the financing decision – i.e., the access, negotiation and action stages. We develop a conceptual model to disentangle the impact mechanisms, namely, the information mechanism of the structural dimension in the access stage, the knowledge mechanism of the cognitive dimension and the trust mechanism of the relational dimension in the negotiation stage. Using China as our experimental setting, we find that the structural and cognitive dimensions facilitate venture capital financing, whereas the relational dimension does not. The results advance our understanding of the interrelationship among the three dimensions of social capital and their impact mechanisms on entrepreneurial financing.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, most spring 2020 university courses were abruptly transitioned mid-semester to remote learning. The current study was an exploratory investigation into the interactions among individuals within a single biology department during this transition. ABSTRACT In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, most spring 2020 university courses were abruptly transitioned mid-semester to remote learning. The current study was an exploratory investigation into the interactions among individuals within a single biology department during this transition. Our goal was to describe the patterns of interactions among members of this community, including with whom they gave advice on instruction, shared materials, co-constructed materials, and shared emotions, during the rapid online transition. We explored how instructional teams (i.e., the instructor of record and graduate teaching assistants, or GTAs, assigned to a single course) organized themselves, and what interactions exist outside of these instructional teams. Using social network analysis, we found that the flow of resources and support among instructional staff within this department suggest a collaborative and resilient community of practice. Most interactions took place between instructional staff teaching in the same course. While faculty members tended to have more connections than GTAs, GTAs remained highly interactive in this community. We consider how the observed networks might reflect a mobilization of social resources that are important for individual and departmental resilience in a time of crisis. Actively promoting supportive networks and network structures may be important as higher education continues to cope and adapt to the changing landscape brought on by COVID-19.
We investigate opinion dynamics and information spreading on networks under the influence of content filtering technologies. The filtering mechanism, present in many online social platforms, reduces individuals’ exposure to disagreeing opinions, producing algorithmic bias. We derive evolution equations for global opinion variables in the presence of algorithmic bias, network community structure, noise (independent behavior of individuals), and pairwise or group interactions. We consider the case where the social platform shows a predilection for one opinion over its opposite, unbalancing the dynamics in favor of that opinion. We show that if the imbalance is strong enough, it may determine the final global opinion and the dynamical behavior of the population. We find a complex phase diagram including phases of coexistence, consensus, and polarization of opinions as possible final states of the model, with phase transitions of different order between them. The fixed point structure of the equations determines the dynamics to a large extent. We focus on the time needed for convergence and conclude that this quantity varies within a wide range, showing occasionally signatures of critical slowing down and meta-stability.
This study is a contribution to the discussion on the ethnic segregation cycle, through the examination of individuals’ activity spaces—including residence and workplace—and from the perspective of social networks. Bridging social ties can be a key factor in higher minority inclusion and in breaking the vicious circle of segregation. We compare the spatial behaviour of two ethno-linguistic population groups living in Tallinn, Estonia’s capital city (Estonian-speaking majority and Russian-speaking minority), each of which have co- and interethnic social networks, through the use of mobile positioning (call detail records) and call-graph data. Among our main findings, we show firstly that interethnic social networks are more common for the Russian-speaking minority population. The probability of having an interethnic network is related to the ethno-linguistic composition of the residential district concerned; districts with a higher proportion of residents from another ethnic group tend to favour interethnic networks more. Secondly, the activity space is related to the ethno-linguistic composition of the social networks. Spatial behaviour is most expansive for Estonian speakers with co-ethnic networks, and most constrained for Russian speakers with co-ethnic networks. At the same time, speakers of Estonian and Russian with interethnic networks show rather similar spatial behaviours: They tend to visit more districts where the proportion of people from the other ethno-linguistic group is higher. Interethnic networks are therefore related to spatial behaviour, which can indicate interethnic meeting points and locations, something that is regarded as being important in assimilation and segregation cycle theories.
Despite popular notions of “filter bubbles” and “echo chambers” contributing to radicalization, little evidence exists to support these hypotheses. However, social structure social learning theory would suggest a hereto untested interaction effect. An RCT of new Twitter users in which participants were randomly assigned to a treatment of “filter bubble” (personalization algorithm) suppression. Ego-centric network and survey data were combined to test the effects on justification for suicide bombings. Statistically significant interaction effects were found for two proxies of the echo chamber, the E-I index and modularity. For the treatment group, higher scores on both factors decreased the likelihood for radicalization, with opposing trends in the control group. The echo chamber effect may be dependent on the filter bubble. More research is needed on online network structures in radicalization. While personalization algorithms can potentially be harmful, they may also be leveraged to facilitate interventions.
Women remain minimally represented in senior leadership roles in sport, despite increased female participation in both sport, sport management education programs, and in entry levels positions in the industry. Many women prematurely exit mid-level leadership positions in sport, or are often overlooked for senior leadership positions. To uncover the experiences and strategies of women who made it through the process, we interviewed all the women (N = 7) who now hold senior leadership positions with professional sport properties in Canada. Participants revealed they overcame real and perceived barriers, and they suggested women seeking senior leadership roles in the industry: (a) find, and later become role models, mentors, and sponsors; (b) create access to networks and opportunities; (c) strategically self-promote, and; (d) purposefully build a varied career portfolio. Recommendations for the industry and all those who work in the industry are presented with a goal to break the cycle and help ensure more equitable and inclusive leaders in the senior leadership ranks.
Tournament theory posits that some organizations are modeled after sports tournaments whereby individuals are incentivized to compete and win against other members of the organization. A persistent criticism of tournament theory is that rank-order success of employees is entirely dependent on non-interacting or at least non-cooperating entities. To address what part, if any, cooperation plays in competitive tournaments, this study examines the role of social networks in tournament-style promotion and reward systems. Specifically, we seek to identify the importance of social relationships, such as group dissimilarity, initial tie formation, and tie strength in predicting tournament success. Bringing two largely independent research streams together (one focused on cooperation and one framed around competition), we examine how individuals’ performance interacts with their social relationships—their social networks—to influence their chances of winning a tournament. Using the Survivor television series, we analyze the behaviors of 535 interacting contestants across 30 tournaments. In general, the findings help to illustrate how performance and social networks predict tournament advancement. Interestingly, we find that group dissimilarity based on gender, race, and age, largely does not play a role in advancement in the tournaments. Further, the strength of ties fails to mediate between variables such as group dissimilarity and initial tie formation. We conclude by discussing future directions for theoretical and practical exploration of tournament-style promotion systems. Recommendations include continuing to explore and test the role of social dynamics in compensation and promotion systems.
How does the participation of students with special educational needs (SEN) in mainstream education affect their social inclusion? We introduce a single-item pictorial measure, the Inclusion of Other in the Self (IOS), to compare the social inclusion of SEN students attending mainstream regular schools to social inclusion of SEN students attending special schools. We collected responses from 138 parents of SEN students aged 4–20, to obtain data on the loneliness, friendships and social inclusion of SEN students. The parents of SEN students attending regular schools did not perceive their children to be less included than parents of SEN students attending special schools. School context decreased SEN students’ perceived loneliness independent of the school type. And while most SEN students’ friendships were formed at school, SEN students attending regular schools had more friends, and these were more likely to live in the same neighborhood. Overall, the social inclusion of SEN students across school types was not affected by the school type, only by the school’s inclusive characteristics.
We examine insider trading profitability and common identity between insiders and top executives. In particular, we argue that common gender and the resultant social connections it creates influence access to private information, where insiders benefit from greater information sharing with top executives of the same gender. Using a large sample of US firms between 1995 and 2016, we find higher (lower) insider trading profitability for female (male) insiders in the presence of a female CEO or CFO. We also study and find that, in isolation, other social and professional commonalities, such as common age, ethnicity, having attended the same university or having worked at the same firm also increase insider profitability, albeit to a lesser extent. Our evidence suggests that some of these commonalties, when cumulated, enhance the common gender effect. We examine formal interactions and find that attending meetings and serving on committees with top executives of the same gender enables private information sharing, consistent with common gender acting as an informational channel. We also document greater clustering of insiders’ trades around the trades made by common gender top executives. Our findings are consistent with flows of private information from CEOs and CFOs to less informed common gender insiders.
Recommender systems aim to provide item recommendations for users and are usually faced with data sparsity problems (e.g., cold start) in real-world scenarios. Recently pre-trained models have shown their effectiveness in knowledge transfer between domains and tasks, which can potentially alleviate the data sparsity problem in recommender systems. In this survey, we first provide a review of recommender systems with pre-training. In addition, we show the benefits of pre-training to recommender systems through experiments. Finally, we discuss several promising directions for future research of recommender systems with pre-training. The source code of our experiments will be available to facilitate future research.
Individuals of modern societies share ideas and participate in collective processes within a pervasive, variable, and mostly hidden ecosystem of content filtering technologies that determine what information we see online. Despite the impact of these algorithms on daily life and society, little is known about their effect on information transfer and opinion formation. It is thus unclear to what extent algorithmic bias has a harmful influence on collective decision-making, such as a tendency to polarize debate. Here we introduce a general theoretical framework to systematically link models of opinion dynamics, social network structure, and content filtering. We showcase the flexibility of our framework by exploring a family of binary-state opinion dynamics models where information exchange lies in a spectrum from pairwise to group interactions. All models show an opinion polarization regime driven by algorithmic bias and modular network structure. The role of content filtering is, however, surprisingly nuanced; for pairwise interactions it leads to polarization, while for group interactions it promotes coexistence of opinions. This allows us to pinpoint which social interactions are robust against algorithmic bias, and which ones are susceptible to bias-enhanced opinion polarization. Our framework gives theoretical ground for the development of heuristics to tackle harmful effects of online bias, such as information bottlenecks, echo chambers, and opinion radicalization.
In this article, we propose a new method to perform topological network sampling. Topological network sampling is a process for extracting a subset of nodes and edges from a network, such that analyses on the sample provide results and conclusions comparable to the ones they would return if run on whole structure. We need network sampling because the largest online network datasets are accessed through low-throughput application programming interface (API) systems, rendering the collection of the whole network infeasible. Our method is inspired by the literature on network backboning, specifically the noise-corrected backbone. We select the next node to explore by following the edge we identify as the one providing the largest information gain, given the topology of the sample explored so far. We evaluate our method against the most commonly used sampling methods. We do so in a realistic framework, considering a wide array of network topologies, network analysis, and features of API systems. There is no method that can provide the best sample in all possible scenarios, thus in our results section, we show the cases in which our method performs best and the cases in which it performs worst. Overall, the noise-corrected network sampling performs well: it has the best rank average among the tested methods across a wide range of applications.
This study examines the phenomena of political unfriending and content removal on social media in three Western democracies—France, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We seek to understand ...
This study aims to analyze the relationship between physical attractiveness, attitude homophily, social attractiveness, openness, interactivity, credibility, parasocial interaction, and purchase intention on YouTube in the culinary business in Indonesia. This research is a causal research design that applies the Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) research model as a method of data analysis. Using convenience sampling, the study sample involved 202 respondents as YouTube users in Jakarta and its surroundings who watched food review content by food vloggers more than three times a month. Based on the results of the hypothesis test, the factors that influence social interaction are physical attractiveness, social attractiveness, and interactivity. Meanwhile, only physical attractiveness affects food vlogger credibility. Therefore, before deciding to collaborate with a food vlogger, marketers can understand how credibility is formed and the interaction between a food vlogger and its audience on social media so that it can influence the audience's buying interest
Abstract Some fear that social bots, automated accounts on online social networks, propagate falsehoods that can harm public opinion formation and democratic decision-making. Empirical research, however, resulted in puzzling findings. On the one hand, the content emitted by bots tends to spread very quickly in the networks. On the other hand, it turned out that bots’ ability to contact human users tends to be very limited. Here we analyze an agent-based model of social influence in networks explaining this inconsistency. We show that bots may be successful in spreading falsehoods not despite their limited direct impact on human users, but because of this limitation. Our model suggests that bots with limited direct impact on humans may be more and not less effective in spreading their views in the social network, because their direct contacts keep exerting influence on users that the bot does not reach directly. Highly active and well-connected bots, in contrast, may have a strong impact on their direct contacts, but these contacts grow too dissimilar from their network neighbors to further spread the bot’s content. To demonstrate this effect, we included bots in Axelrod’s seminal model of the dissemination of cultures and conducted simulation experiments demonstrating the strength of weak bots. A series of sensitivity analyses show that the finding is robust, in particular when the model is tailored to the context of online social networks. We discuss implications for future empirical research and developers of approaches to detect bots and misinformation.
If a person is overqualified in the sense that an employee’s level of training exceeds the job requirements, then some human capital lies idle and cannot be converted into appropriate (monetary and non-monetary) returns. Migrants are particularly at risk of being overqualified in their employment; however, this phenomenon cannot be fully explained by differences in human capital or socio-economic characteristics. This paper examines whether social capital plays a decisive role in migrants’ risk of overqualification in Germany. Using data from the German IAB-SOEP Migration Sample, we analyse the job search process of migrants to determine whether social networks influence their risk of being employed below their acquired educational level. We estimate logistic regression models and find that social capital influences the adequacy of migrants’ jobs: We show that migrants are at a greater risk of overqualification if they use only informal job search strategies such as relying on friends or family members. Moreover, we find that homophilous migrant networks and jobs in employment niches are risk factors for overqualification. We conclude that the combination of informal job search modes and homophilous migrant networks leads to a comparably high risk for migrants of being overqualified in their employment in the German labour market.
The ability to 'sense' the social environment and thereby to understand the thoughts and actions of others allows humans to fit into their social worlds, communicate and cooperate, and learn from others' experiences. Here we argue that, through the lens of computational social science, this ability can be used to advance research into human sociality. When strategically selected to represent a specific population of interest, human social sensors can help to describe and predict societal trends. In addition, their reports of how they experience their social worlds can help to build models of social dynamics that are constrained by the empirical reality of human social systems.
How does skin color shape the social networks and integration pathways of phenotypically diverse immigrant groups? Focusing on Dominicans and Puerto Ricans, groups with considerable diversity across the Black-White color line, the authors explore whether migrants to the United States have greater color homophily in their primary social networks than nonmigrants in the sending societies. The authors analyze egocentric network data, including unique skin color measures for both 114 respondents and 1,702 alters. They test hypotheses derived from ethnic unifier theory and color line racialization theory. The data show evidence of color homophily among Dominicans but suggest that these patterns may be imported from the sending society rather than fostered by the U.S. context. Furthermore, the authors find that migrants’ skin color is associated with having ties to White or Black Americans but with different patterns for each ethnic group. The authors discuss the implications of these findings for economic mobility and U.S. racial hierarchies.
In this article, we introduce a generalization of graphlets to heterogeneous networks called typed graphlets. Informally, typed graphlets are small typed induced subgraphs. Typed graphlets generalize graphlets to rich heterogeneous networks as they explicitly capture the higher-order typed connectivity patterns in such networks. To address this problem, we describe a general framework for counting the occurrences of such typed graphlets. The proposed algorithms leverage a number of combinatorial relationships for different typed graphlets. For each edge, we count a few typed graphlets, and with these counts along with the combinatorial relationships, we obtain the exact counts of the other typed graphlets in o(1) constant time. Notably, the worst-case time complexity of the proposed approach matches the time complexity of the best known untyped algorithm. In addition, the approach lends itself to an efficient lock-free and asynchronous parallel implementation. While there are no existing methods for typed graphlets, there has been some work that focused on computing a different and much simpler notion called colored graphlet. The experiments confirm that our proposed approach is orders of magnitude faster and more space-efficient than methods for computing the simpler notion of colored graphlet. Unlike these methods that take hours on small networks, the proposed approach takes only seconds on large networks with millions of edges. Notably, since typed graphlet is more general than colored graphlet (and untyped graphlets), the counts of various typed graphlets can be combined to obtain the counts of the much simpler notion of colored graphlets. The proposed methods give rise to new opportunities and applications for typed graphlets.
BACKGROUND
Since 2000, more than 6,000 Burmese refugees were resettled in Wisconsin. The Burmese diet is traditionally rich in fish and fish products, and studies show that Burmese refugees continue to rely on local waterbodies for food. Given that Wisconsin has five Areas of Concern (AOC) that are severely affected by pollution, long-term exposure to contaminants in sport-caught fish is a health concern. To better understand fish consumption among Burmese refugees, we conducted a biomonitoring study in Milwaukee. The present study examined Burmese refugees' fish consumption habits and awareness of fish advisories.


METHODS
We used respondent-driven sampling (RDS) methodology to recruit Burmese refugees in Milwaukee. RDS Analysis Tool 7.1 was used to obtain adjusted population estimates for demographic characteristics, fish consumption habits, and awareness of fish advisories. Homophily and equilibrium were investigated to evaluate the effectiveness of RDS in recruitment.


RESULTS
Initiated by five active seeds, we recruited 103 respondents to participate in the study. Respondents had a strong preference to recruit those with the same ethnicity (Homophily-score: 0.614 to 0.699) and a relatively weak preference to recruit those with the same sex (Homophily-score: 0.188 to 0.222) to participate in our study. The majority (72.5%) of respondents were women of childbearing age (WCBA). Most (68.5%) had 8th grade or less education. Regarding sportfish consumption per month in the past year, 30.6% reported eating 1-3 meals and 21.2% reported more than 3 meals. When asked about purchased fish consumption per month, 26.3% reported eating 1-3 meals. The overwhelming majority were not aware of safe-eating sportfish guidelines for Wisconsin (88.3%) or Milwaukee waterbodies (96.6%).


CONCLUSIONS
RDS is an effective methodology to recruit hard-to-reach populations, such as the Burmese surveyed in this study. High percentages of WCBA eating potentially contaminated sportfish meals, low awareness of consumption advisories, and limited economic resources make the Burmese population more likely to be exposed to contaminants. Health education efforts should be focused in this vulnerable population, particularly among Burmese WCBA.

The growing number of gender studies encourages more refined analyzes and greater conceptualization of the underlying processes of gender gap in science. In Herpetology, previous studies have described gender disparities and a scrutiny of individual interactions may help revealing the mechanisms modelling the global pattern. In this contribution we modeled a co-authorship network, a previously unexplored methodology for gender studies in this discipline, in addition to a broad and classic bibliometric analysis of the discipline. Co-authorship networks were modelled for two South American journals, because this geo-political location is considered to present the best gender balance within general scientific communities. However, we found a pattern of male preferential connections (male homophily) that marginalizes women and maintains the gender gap, at both regional and global scales. This interpretation arises from results coming from multiple analyses, such as high homophily index in collaboration networks, lower female representation in articles than expected in a non-gender biased environment, the decrease of female co-authors when the article leader is a man, and the extreme masculinization of the editorial boards. The homophilic dynamics of the publication process reveals that academic activity is pervasive to unbalanced power relationships. Personal interactions shape the collective experience, tracing back to the Feminist Theory’s axiom: “the personal is political”.
The practice of science outreach is more necessary than ever. However, a disconnect exists between the stated goals for science outreach and its actual impact. In order to examine one potential source of this disconnect, we undertook a survey-based study to explore whether barriers to participation (either intrinsic or extrinsic) in science outreach exist within the academic community. We received responses to our survey from 530 individuals, the vast majority of whom engage in some type of science outreach activity on an annual basis. Those who engage in outreach report doing so for both personal and altruistic reasons, and having high (yet varied) levels of comfort with performing outreach activities. Respondents also report the existence of several significant yet surmountable barriers to participation, including lack of time and funding. Our findings demonstrate that both levels of participation in, and attitudes toward, science outreach within the academic community are generally favorable, suggesting that the general ineffectiveness of science outreach is due to other causes. We place our findings within the context of the broader science outreach, science communication and public engagement literature. We make recommendations on how existing approaches and infrastructure can, and must, be changed in order to improve the practice.
The aims: (i) analyze connectivity between subgroups of university students, (ii) assess which bridges of relational contacts are essential for connecting or disconnecting subgroups and (iii) to explore the similarities between the attributes of the subgroup nodes in relation to the pandemic context. During the COVID-19 pandemic, young university students have experienced significant changes in their relationships, especially in the halls of residence. Previous research has shown the importance of relationship structure in contagion processes. However, there is a lack of studies in the university setting, where students live closely together. The case study methodology was applied to carry out a descriptive study. The participation consisted of 43 university students living in the same hall of residence. Social network analysis has been applied for data analysis. Factions and Girvan–Newman algorithms have been applied to detect the existing cohesive subgroups. The UCINET tool was used for the calculation of the SNA measure. A visualization of the global network will be carried out using Gephi software. After applying the Girvan–Newman and Factions, in both cases it was found that the best division into subgroups was the one that divided the network into 4 subgroups. There is high degree of cohesion within the subgroups and a low cohesion between them. The relationship between subgroup membership and gender was significant. The degree of COVID-19 infection is related to the degree of clustering between the students. College students form subgroups in their residence. Social network analysis facilitates an understanding of structural behavior during the pandemic. The study provides evidence on the importance of gender, race and the building where they live in creating network structures that favor, or not, contagion during a pandemic.
Journalists often use social media data to understand public opinion. However, it is likely that social media data reflect unrepresentative and polarized opinions. In this sense, it is important to understand who express their opinions on social media and in which context they do. SNS users can express their opinions by engagement (e.g., ‘liking’, recommending, commenting, and sharing), assuming the presence of an audience. Using the data from the 2016 Korean Media Panel Survey (N = 630), this study examines whether and how the user engagement was associated with ideological extremity and SNS types. For that, we categorized SNS platforms into two types (closed and open) and tested how user preference for each type was related to engagement on SNSs. The results showed that ideological extremity could positively predict user engagement. We also found a positive correlation between preference for open SNSs and engagement, while the relationship between preference for closed SNSs and engagement was not statistically significant. In addition, it was found that ideological extremity and SNS type interactively influenced user engagement. Specifically, the positive correlation between preference for closed [open] SNSs and engagement was strengthened when the ideological extremity was of a high [low] than low [high] condition. Implications of the findings are discussed.
The COVID-19 pandemic introduced unprecedented challenges for individuals in organizations to maintain their interpersonal connections, which are critical for resource exchange. Because prior research has focused on how networks gradually evolve over time, there is little insight into how an exogenous shock, such as the pandemic, would reshape informal ties among colleagues that comprise their social networks. Drawing upon the optimal matching theory of social support, we develop a psychological perspective on how individuals recalibrate their social ties to enable coping with the uncertainty and anxiety introduced by the pandemic shock. We test our theory using a three-wave network data set from a sample of colocated, full-time MBA students before and after the onset of the pandemic. Following the onset of the pandemic, we found there was an overall reduction in the maintenance of advice ties. We also found that emotional exhaustion exacerbated this effect, and when emotional exhaustion was high, racially homophilous advice ties were just as likely to be dropped as heterophilous advice ties. We also found, unexpectedly, that COVID-19 reduced the maintenance of friendship ties, perhaps because social distancing reduced emotional support opportunities. Thoughts of anticipated inclusion mitigated this negative effect, particularly for racially heterophilous friendships. Individuals in organizations have psychological agency for reordering their social networks to respond to demands created by existential crises.
Abstract To gain insights into social integration of second- and third-generation immigrant youth in Dutch secondary schools, we examined the two sides: immigrant youth’s attitudes toward the societal majority and the societal majority youth’s attitudes toward immigrants, while taking into account immigrant youth’s diverse cultural backgrounds. The sample included Dutch-born Turkish (n = 187), Moroccan (n = 188), and Surinamese (n = 164) adolescents as well as societal majority youth (n = 2,141) across 169 classrooms in 92 Dutch secondary schools. School-based exposure to, and friendships with relevant out-group classmates were examined separately as predictors of out-group attitudes. Also, the mediational function of out-group friendships, i.e., immigrant respectively societal majority, on the association between exposure and attitudes was tested. The results varied between immigrant and societal majority youth, as well as across the cultural groups. Overall, out-group exposure was found to benefit all immigrant adolescents’ attitudes toward the societal majority. For societal majority adolescents, however, the association between exposure, friendships and attitudes differed based on the relevant out-group. This study highlights the nuances between immigrant groups and between immigrant and societal majority groups’ attitudes toward one another.
Within our societies, humans form co-operative groups with diverse levels of relationship quality among individual group members. In establishing relationships with others, we use attitudes and beliefs about group members and the group as a whole to establish relationships with particular members of our social networks. However, we have yet to understand how brain responses to group members facilitate relationship quality between pairs of individuals. We address this here using a round-robin interpersonal perception paradigm in which each participant was both a perceiver and target for every other member of their group in a set of 20 unique groups of between 5 and 6 members in each (total N = 111). Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we show that measures of social relationship strength modulate the brain-to-brain multivoxel similarity patterns between pairs of participants' responses when perceiving other members of their group in regions of the brain implicated in social cognition. These results provide evidence for a brain mechanism of social cognitive processes serving interpersonal relationship strength among group members.
Learning and reasoning over graphs is increasingly done by means of probabilistic models, e.g. exponential random graph models, graph embedding models, and graph neural networks. When graphs are modeling relations between people, however, they will inevitably reflect biases, prejudices, and other forms of inequity and inequality. An important challenge is thus to design accurate graph modeling approaches while guaranteeing fairness according to the specific notion of fairness that the problem requires. Yet, past work on the topic remains scarce, is limited to debiasing specific graph modeling methods, and often aims to ensure fairness in an indirect manner. We propose a generic approach applicable to most probabilistic graph modeling approaches. Specifically, we first define the class of fair graph models corresponding to a chosen set of fairness criteria. Given this, we propose a fairness regularizer defined as the KL-divergence between the graph model and its I-projection onto the set of fair models. We demonstrate that using this fairness regularizer in combination with existing graph modeling approaches efficiently trades-off fairness with accuracy, whereas the state-of-the-art models can only make this trade-off for the fairness criterion that they were specifically designed for.
This article is a case study in the formation and function of commercial networks in the early Modern Period. Analysing the network structures and strategies of foreign businessmen in urban context...
This population-based study of over 27 million referrals to surgeons demonstrated that patient sharing among physicians and surgeons is influenced by the sex of the patient, referring physician, and surgeon. Importantly, the study demonstrated that male patients are unlikely to be referred to female surgeons, particularly if seen by a male physician. These disparities are not improving over time.
ABSTRACT Transgender women are more likely to exchange sex than cisgender individuals. This study investigated how social networks were associated with exchange sex among transgender women in Los Angeles County. From July 2015 to September 2016, transgender women (N = 271; “egos”) reported their sexual and substance use behaviors and perceptions of the same behaviors among their peers (N = 2,619; “alters”). Clustered logistic and negative binomial regressions were used to model odds of exchange sex and number of exchange sex partners in the past 6 months, respectively. Transgender women who perceived that any of their peers were engaged in exchange sex were approximately four times more likely to exchange sex themselves and reported three times as many exchange sex partners as those who did not perceive any peers engaged in exchange sex. Perceived ecstasy use among peers was associated with higher odds of exchange sex and more exchange sex partners, whereas perceived marijuana use among peers was associated with lower odds of exchange sex and fewer exchange sex partners. Peer behaviors were strongly associated with both transgender women’s likelihood and rate of engagement in exchange sex. Risk reduction interventions with transgender women should attend to network dynamics that are often overlooked in existing programs.
Homophily structures human social networks: people tend to seek out or be attracted to those who share their preferences or values, and to generally expect social connections between similar people. Here, we probe the nature and extent of infants' homophilic thinking by asking whether infants can use information about other people's shared preferences in the absence of other socially relevant behaviors (e.g., their proximity or joint attention) to infer their affiliation. To do so, we present infants with scenarios in which two people either share a preference or have opposing preferences while varying (across studies) the degree to which those people engage in other socially relevant behaviors. We show that by 14 months of age, infants demonstrate clear inferences of homophily: they expect two people with a shared preference to be more likely to affiliate than two people without such similarity, even in the absence of other social behaviors that signal friendship. Although such cognition begins to emerge by 6-months, younger infants' inferences are bolstered by social behaviors that signal friendship. Thus, an abstract understanding that homophily guides third-party affiliation has its roots in the second year of life, and potentially earlier.

 This paper investigates the gender promotion gap in a particular highly skilled profession, that of physicians. The following analyses are based on a dataset of more than a thousand doctors working in Italy, a country in which hospitals play a central role in the national health care system. Given a three-step career ladder—first level, vice, and head—this research finds that women are 8% less likely than men to be promoted from the first level to vice, whereas no significant disadvantage is found in the promotion from vice to head. This suggests that the vertical segregation is due more to a sticky floors mechanism than to a glass ceiling effect. Moreover, no motherhood penalty occurs. Private organizations appear to be more gender equal than public ones and similar, albeit weaker, findings come from the analysis of the specialties, cautiously suggesting that the male-dominated area of surgery is more gender equal than the female-dominated area of medicine. These findings point out that women in highly skilled professions may encounter fewer obstacles to promotion than in the general labor market. Furthermore, they may encounter fewer obstacles within the most competitive organizations and specialty areas than across the profession in general. This is not, however, because of a greater number of opportunities, but because they represent a highly selected and career-oriented population. These results shed light on the costs of such achievement for women, both in terms of effort and in terms of equality among women themselves.
One significant challenge to understanding the mechanisms of urban retail areas’ transition is limited data to trace a dynamic perspective of influential actors’ experience in an extended urban area. We overcome this gap by employing text mining to collect big text data from online blogs and propose a methodology to explore the dynamic spatial transformations and interactions across multiple adjacent retail areas. We study five retail areas that currently function as a major commercial hub in Seoul—the Hongdae area and its neighboring districts. We create co-occurrence networks of the text data to capture representative place images and user experiences. Our blog-word networks systematically capture the “invasion-succession” process in land-use transition during the commercialization of Hongdae’s neighboring districts. The process mirrors the history of spatial change in the areas, which once formed a small-scale, bohemian hip neighborhood that incubated indie culture and has now fully commercialized as a global tourist attraction. The commercial transition triggered by Hongdae’s cultural capital peaked with consumer experiences of “food and eating” dominating the whole area. Finally, the text networks signal gentrification in each commercial district near Hongdae, contributing to the current discourse on commercial gentrification by adding consumers’ perspectives.
We explore the value of diversity for hedge funds. We show that fund management teams with heterogeneous education backgrounds, experiences, and nationalities, outperform homogeneous teams by 3.59% to 6.23% per annum after adjusting for risk. An event study of diversity-enhancing manager team transitions together with an instrumental variable analysis that exploits the demographic diversity at a hedge fund founder's hometown help address endogeneity. Diverse teams outpace homogeneous teams by exploiting a wider range of long-horizon investment opportunities and avoiding behavioral biases. Diversity also allows hedge funds to circumvent capacity constraints. Consequently, performance persists more for diverse teams.
Identity fusion represents a strongly-held personal identity that significantly overlaps with that of a group, and is the current best explanation as to why individuals become empowered to act with extreme self-sacrifice for a group of non-kin. This is widely seen and documented, yet how identity fusion is promoted by evolution is not well-understood, being seemingly counter to the selfish pursuit of survival. In this paper we extend agent-based modelling to explore how and why identity fusion can establish itself in an unrelated population with no previous shared experiences. Using indirect reciprocity to provide a framework for agent interaction, we enable agents to express their identity fusion towards a group, and observe the effects of potential behaviours that are incentivised by a heightened fusion level. These build on the social psychology literature and involve heightened sensitivity of fused individuals to perceived hypocritical group support from others. We find that simple self-referential judgement and ignorance of perceived hypocrites is sufficient to promote identity fusion and this is easily triggered by a sub-group of the population. Interestingly the self-referential judgement that we impose is an individual-level behaviour with no direct collective benefit shared by the population. The study provides clues, beyond qualitative and observational studies, as to how hypocrisy may have established itself to reinforce the collective benefit of a fused group identity. It also provides an alternative perspective on the controversial proposition of group selection - showing how fluidity between an individual’s reputation and that of a group may function and influence selection as a consequence of identity fusion.
Ethnic and racial minority communities often suffer more from disasters due to a lack of access to resources from governmental agencies and other organizations that provide disaster relief. To explore the role of social media in addressing this problem, this study investigates whether a popular social messaging application among the Chinese immigrant community, WeChat, helped victims of Harvey overcome the detrimental impacts of the hurricane. In particular, we compared Chinese Houstonians’ psychological well-being with other ethnic and racial minority groups in the region. Results indicate that Chinese WeChat users in Houston successfully utilized social capital and achieved stronger resilience as compared to other ethnic and racial groups.
Correspondence JohnDixon, School of Psychology,Open University,WaltonHall,MiltonKeynes, MK76AA,UK. Email: john.dixon@open.ac.uk Abstract Intergroup contact research has expanded exponentially in the last few decades, with researchers employing a widening range of methods to offer new insights into the effects of both positive and negative contact experiences. In this commentary, we discuss the contributions of three papers to this special issue of the Journal of Social Issues on advances in intergroup contact research, namely Schäfer et al.’s (2021) review of research on negative intergroup contact experiences, Hässler et al.’s (2020) review of research on intergroup contact and social change, and O’Donnell et al.’s (2021) review of technological and analytic advances in contact research. Having outlined the key arguments of each paper, we then offer some theoretical and methodological reflections, also discussing potential gaps, connections, opportunities, and future directions along the way. We end by reflecting on a common theme that permeates our commentary: the need to contextualize adequately the dynamics of intergroup contact across a range of everyday settings. Here we argue that to fully understand how to promote beneficial forms of intergroup contact, we need to consider more carefully how contact is experienced, enacted, and evaluated “on the ground” by participants themselves. This requires work of both theoretical and methodological innovation.
Predictable polarization is everywhere: we can often predict how people’s opinions—including our own—will shift over time. Empirical studies suggest that this is so when evidence is ambiguous. That fact is often thought to demonstrate human irrationality. It doesn’t. Bayesians will predictably polarize iff their evidence is ambiguous. And ours often is: the process of cognitive search—searching a cognitively-accessible space for an item of a particular profile—yields ambiguous evidence that can predictably polarize beliefs, despite being expected to make them more accurate. A series of such rational updates can lead to polarization that is predictable, profound, and persistent. This process is not only theoretically possible, but also empirically plausible. I present an experiment supporting the polarizing effect of cognitive search, and then use models and simulations to show how such ambiguous evidence can help explain two of the core causes of polarization: confirmation bias and the group polarization effect.
Most empirical studies of complex networks do not return direct, error-free measurements of network structure. Instead, they typically rely on indirect measurements that are often error-prone and unreliable. A fundamental problem in empirical network science is how to make the best possible estimates of network structure given such unreliable data. In this paper we describe a fully Bayesian method for reconstructing networks from observational data in any format, even when the data contain substantial measurement error and when the nature and magnitude of that error is unknown. The method is introduced through pedagogical case studies using real-world example networks, and specifically tailored to allow straightforward, computationally efficient implementation with a minimum of technical input. Computer code implementing the method is publicly available.
Most are familiar with the notion of socially “clicking” with someone, namely sensing an immediate bond that can lead to strong and often long-lasting friendships. The mechanisms underlying such rapid bonding remain unclear. Given that body-odor similarity is a critical cue for social interaction in non-human mammals, we tested the hypothesis that body-odor similarly contributes to bonding in same-sex non-romantic human dyads. We observed that objective ratings obtained with an electronic nose, and subjective ratings obtained from human smellers, converged to suggest that click-friends smell more similar to each other than random dyads. Remarkably, we then found that we could use the electronic nose to predict which strangers would later form better dyadic interactions. Thus, humans may literally sniff-out new friends based on similarities in body-odor.
The paper describes how social capital has facilitated and hindered the disaster recovery of selected community residents of the municipalities of Tolosa and Dulag in Leyte Province who were victims of Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. A survey was conducted using questionnaire to 201 male and female respondents, on how they were able to utilize social capital in order to rebuild their lives, of their families and communities. The study revealed that the weak social capital displayed by the community could partly explain that the respondents felt moderate satisfaction with their state of recovery such as having more permanent and stable housing and livelihood. Having stronger social capital could possibly increase levels of satisfaction among the community residents of Tolosa and Dulag and improve their overall recovery and resilience by building back better.
